1:1 In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah came  Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon unto Jerusalem, and besieged it.    
1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with part  of the vessels of the house of God: which he carried into the land of  Shinar to the house of his god; and he brought the vessels into the  treasure house of his god.    
1:3 And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, that  he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king's  seed, and of the princes; 
1:4 Children in whom was no blemish, but  well favoured, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge,  and understanding science, and such as had ability in them to stand in  the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and the  tongue of the Chaldeans.    
1:5 And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat,  and of the wine which he drank: so nourishing them three years, that  at the end thereof they might stand before the king.    
1:6 Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah,  Mishael, and Azariah: 
1:7 Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave  names: for he gave unto Daniel the name of Belteshazzar; and to  Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, of  Abednego.    
1:8 But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself  with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank:  therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not  defile himself.    
1:9 Now God had brought Daniel into favour and tender love with the  prince of the eunuchs.    
1:10 And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel, I fear my lord  the king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink: for why should  he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your  sort? then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king.    
1:11 Then said Daniel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had  set over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, 
1:12 Prove thy  servants, I beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat,  and water to drink.    
1:13 Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the  countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's  meat: and as thou seest, deal with thy servants.    
1:14 So he consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.    
1:15 And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and  fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the  king's meat.    
1:16 Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine  that they should drink; and gave them pulse.    
1:17 As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in  all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions  and dreams.    
1:18 Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring  them in, then the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before  Nebuchadnezzar.    
1:19 And the king communed with them; and among them all was found  none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: therefore stood they  before the king.    
1:20 And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, that the king  enquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the  magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm.    
1:21 And Daniel continued even unto the first year of king Cyrus.    
2:1 And in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar  Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was troubled, and  his sleep brake from him.    
2:2 Then the king commanded to call the magicians, and the  astrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans, for to shew the  king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king.    
2:3 And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit  was troubled to know the dream.    
2:4 Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Syriack, O king, live for  ever: tell thy servants the dream, and we will shew the  interpretation.    
2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The thing is gone  from me: if ye will not make known unto me the dream, with the  interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces, and your houses  shall be made a dunghill.    
2:6 But if ye shew the dream, and the interpretation thereof, ye shall  receive of me gifts and rewards and great honour: therefore shew me  the dream, and the interpretation thereof.    
2:7 They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants the  dream, and we will shew the interpretation of it.    
2:8 The king answered and said, I know of certainty that ye would gain  the time, because ye see the thing is gone from me.    
2:9 But if ye will not make known unto me the dream, there is but one  decree for you: for ye have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak  before me, till the time be changed: therefore tell me the dream, and  I shall know that ye can shew me the interpretation thereof.    
2:10 The Chaldeans answered before the king, and said, There is not a  man upon the earth that can shew the king's matter: therefore there is  no king, lord, nor ruler, that asked such things at any magician, or  astrologer, or Chaldean.    
2:11 And it is a rare thing that the king requireth, and there is none  other that can shew it before the king, except the gods, whose  dwelling is not with flesh.    
2:12 For this cause the king was angry and very furious, and commanded  to destroy all the wise men of Babylon.    
2:13 And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain; and  they sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain.    
2:14 Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisdom to Arioch the  captain of the king's guard, which was gone forth to slay the wise men  of Babylon: 
2:15 He answered and said to Arioch the king's captain,  Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Then Arioch made the thing  known to Daniel.    
2:16 Then Daniel went in, and desired of the king that he would give  him time, and that he would shew the king the interpretation.    
2:17 Then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to  Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions: 
2:18 That they would  desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret; that  Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise men  of Babylon.    
2:19 Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then  Daniel blessed the God of heaven.    
2:20 Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and  ever: for wisdom and might are his: 
2:21 And he changeth the times and  the seasons: he removeth kings, and setteth up kings: he giveth wisdom  unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding: 
2:22 He  revealeth the deep and secret things: he knoweth what is in the  darkness, and the light dwelleth with him.    
2:23 I thank thee, and praise thee, O thou God of my fathers, who hast  given me wisdom and might, and hast made known unto me now what we  desired of thee: for thou hast now made known unto us the king's  matter.    
2:24 Therefore Daniel went in unto Arioch, whom the king had ordained  to destroy the wise men of Babylon: he went and said thus unto him;  Destroy not the wise men of Babylon: bring me in before the king, and  I will shew unto the king the interpretation.    
2:25 Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste, and said  thus unto him, I have found a man of the captives of Judah, that will  make known unto the king the interpretation.    
2:26 The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was  Belteshazzar, Art thou able to make known unto me the dream which I  have seen, and the interpretation thereof?  
2:27 Daniel answered in  the presence of the king, and said, The secret which the king hath  demanded cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, the  soothsayers, shew unto the king; 
2:28 But there is a God in heaven  that revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar  what shall be in the latter days. Thy dream, and the visions of thy  head upon thy bed, are these; 
2:29 As for thee, O king, thy thoughts  came into thy mind upon thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter:  and he that revealeth secrets maketh known to thee what shall come to  pass.    
2:30 But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom  that I have more than any living, but for their sakes that shall make  known the interpretation to the king, and that thou mightest know the  thoughts of thy heart.    
2:31 Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. This great image,  whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee; and the form  thereof was terrible.    
2:32 This image's head was of fine gold, his breast and his arms of  silver, his belly and his thighs of brass, 
2:33 His legs of iron, his  feet part of iron and part of clay.    
2:34 Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which  smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake  them to pieces.    
2:35 Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold,  broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer  threshingfloors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was  found for them: and the stone that smote the image became a great  mountain, and filled the whole earth.    
2:36 This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof  before the king.    
2:37 Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath  given thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory.    
2:38 And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the  field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, and  hath made thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold.    
2:39 And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and  another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the  earth.    
2:40 And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron: forasmuch as iron  breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things: and as iron that breaketh  all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise.    
2:41 And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters' clay,  and part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in  it of the strength of the iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the iron  mixed with miry clay.    
2:42 And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay,  so the kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken.    
2:43 And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall  mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave one  to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay.    
2:44 And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a  kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be  left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all  these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.    
2:45 Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the  mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the  brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made  known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is  certain, and the interpretation thereof sure.    
2:46 Then the king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face, and worshipped  Daniel, and commanded that they should offer an oblation and sweet  odours unto him.    
2:47 The king answered unto Daniel, and said, Of a truth it is, that  your God is a God of gods, and a Lord of kings, and a revealer of  secrets, seeing thou couldest reveal this secret.    
2:48 Then the king made Daniel a great man, and gave him many great  gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and  chief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon.    
2:49 Then Daniel requested of the king, and he set Shadrach, Meshach,  and Abednego, over the affairs of the province of Babylon: but Daniel  sat in the gate of the king.    
3:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was  threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up in  the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.    
3:2 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes,  the governors, and the captains, the judges, the treasurers, the  counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to  come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had  set up.    
3:3 Then the princes, the governors, and captains, the judges, the  treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the  provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the image  that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the  image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.    
3:4 Then an herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people,  nations, and languages, 
3:5 That at what time ye hear the sound of the  cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of  musick, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar  the king hath set up: 
3:6 And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth  shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.    
3:7 Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the  cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of musick, all  the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshipped  the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.    
3:8 Wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and accused  the Jews.    
3:9 They spake and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live for  ever.    
3:10 Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hear  the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer,  and all kinds of musick, shall fall down and worship the golden image:  
3:11 And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, that he should be  cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.    
3:12 There are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the  province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O  king, have not regarded thee: they serve not thy gods, nor worship the  golden image which thou hast set up.    
3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury commanded to bring  Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before  the king.    
3:14 Nebuchadnezzar spake and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach,  Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gods, nor worship the golden  image which I have set up?  
3:15 Now if ye be ready that at what time  ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and  dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the image  which I have made; well: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the  same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that  God that shall deliver you out of my hands?  
3:16 Shadrach, Meshach,  and Abednego, answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are  not careful to answer thee in this matter.    
3:17 If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the  burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O  king.    
3:18 But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve  thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.    
3:19 Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visage  was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: therefore he  spake, and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times  more than it was wont to be heated.    
3:20 And he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army to  bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the  burning fiery furnace.    
3:21 Then these men were bound in their coats, their hosen, and their  hats, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the  burning fiery furnace.    
3:22 Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and the  furnace exceeding hot, the flames of the fire slew those men that took  up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.    
3:23 And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down  bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.    
3:24 Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste,  and spake, and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men  bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the  king, True, O king.    
3:25 He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the  midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth  is like the Son of God.    
3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery  furnace, and spake, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye  servants of the most high God, come forth, and come hither. Then  Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the fire.    
3:27 And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king's  counsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies  the fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head singed, neither  were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them.    
3:28 Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God of  Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his angel, and  delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the  king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor  worship any god, except their own God.    
3:29 Therefore I make a decree, That every people, nation, and  language, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach,  Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall  be made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliver  after this sort.    
3:30 Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the  province of Babylon.    
4:1 Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all people, nations, and languages,  that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.    
4:2 I thought it good to shew the signs and wonders that the high God  hath wrought toward me.    
4:3 How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his  kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation  to generation.    
4:4 I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house, and flourishing in my  palace: 
4:5 I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon  my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.    
4:6 Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon  before me, that they might make known unto me the interpretation of  the dream.    
4:7 Then came in the magicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and  the soothsayers: and I told the dream before them; but they did not  make known unto me the interpretation thereof.    
4:8 But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was  Belteshazzar, according to the name of my God, and in whom is the  spirit of the holy gods: and before him I told the dream, saying, 
4:9  O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the  spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tell  me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretation  thereof.    
4:10 Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed; I saw, and behold a  tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great.    
4:11 The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached  unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth: 
4:12  The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it  was meat for all: the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and the  fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fed  of it.    
4:13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a  watcher and an holy one came down from heaven; 
4:14 He cried aloud,  and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off his branches, shake off  his leaves, and scatter his fruit: let the beasts get away from under  it, and the fowls from his branches: 
4:15 Nevertheless leave the stump  of his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the  tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven,  and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth: 
4:16  Let his heart be changed from man's, and let a beast's heart be given  unto him; and let seven times pass over him.    
4:17 This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by  the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that  the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to  whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.    
4:18 This dream I king Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, O  Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all the  wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the  interpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods is  in thee.    
4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonied for one  hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spake, and said,  Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation thereof,  trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream be to  them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thine enemies.    
4:20 The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose  height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all the  earth; 
4:21 Whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in  it was meat for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and  upon whose branches the fowls of the heaven had their habitation: 
4:22  It is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong: for thy  greatness is grown, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy dominion to the  end of the earth.    
4:23 And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming down  from heaven, and saying, Hew the tree down, and destroy it; yet leave  the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron  and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with  the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the  field, till seven times pass over him; 
4:24 This is the  interpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the most High, which  is come upon my lord the king: 
4:25 That they shall drive thee from  men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and they  shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the  dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou know  that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to  whomsoever he will.    
4:26 And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots;  thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have known  that the heavens do rule.    
4:27 Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and  break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewing  mercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.    
4:28 All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar.    
4:29 At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the  kingdom of Babylon.    
4:30 The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have  built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for  the honour of my majesty?  
4:31 While the word was in the king's  mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar,  to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from thee.    
4:32 And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be  with the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass as  oxen, and seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the  most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he  will.    
4:33 The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he  was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet  with the dew of heaven, till his hairs were grown like eagles'  feathers, and his nails like birds' claws.    
4:34 And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes  unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed  the most High, and I praised and honoured him that liveth for ever,  whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from  generation to generation: 
4:35 And all the inhabitants of the earth  are reputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the army  of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay  his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?  
4:36 At the same time my  reason returned unto me; and for the glory of my kingdom, mine honour  and brightness returned unto me; and my counsellors and my lords  sought unto me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent  majesty was added unto me.    
4:37 Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honour the King of  heaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment: and those  that walk in pride he is able to abase.    
5:1 Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords,  and drank wine before the thousand.    
5:2 Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the  golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken  out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and his  princes, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.    
5:3 Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the  temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and  his princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.    
5:4 They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of  brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.    
5:5 In the same hour came forth fingers of a man's hand, and wrote  over against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the  king's palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.    
5:6 Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled  him, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote  one against another.    
5:7 The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans,  and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men of  Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me the  interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a  chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the  kingdom.    
5:8 Then came in all the king's wise men: but they could not read the  writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.    
5:9 Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was  changed in him, and his lords were astonied.    
5:10 Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords  came into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king,  live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy  countenance be changed: 
5:11 There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is  the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and  understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in  him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy  father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and  soothsayers; 
5:12 Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and  understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences,  and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king  named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the  interpretation.    
5:13 Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spake  and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children  of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of  Jewry?  
5:14 I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is  in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is  found in thee.    
5:15 And now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought in  before me, that they should read this writing, and make known unto me  the interpretation thereof: but they could not shew the interpretation  of the thing: 
5:16 And I have heard of thee, that thou canst make  interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read the  writing, and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt  be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and  shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom.    
5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let thy gifts be  to thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read the  writing unto the king, and make known to him the interpretation.    
5:18 O thou king, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a  kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honour: 
5:19 And for the majesty  that he gave him, all people, nations, and languages, trembled and  feared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom he would he kept  alive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put down.    
5:20 But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride,  he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from  him: 
5:21 And he was driven from the sons of men; and his heart was  made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses: they  fed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of  heaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom of  men, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.    
5:22 And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart,  though thou knewest all this; 
5:23 But hast lifted up thyself against  the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house  before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines,  have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and  gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor  know: and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thy  ways, hast thou not glorified: 
5:24 Then was the part of the hand sent  from him; and this writing was written.    
5:25 And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL,  UPHARSIN.    
5:26 This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numbered  thy kingdom, and finished it.    
5:27 TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.    
5:28 PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and  Persians.    
5:29 Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet,  and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation  concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.    
5:30 In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.    
5:31 And Darius the Median took the kingdom, being about threescore  and two years old.    
6:1 It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom an hundred and twenty  princes, which should be over the whole kingdom; 
6:2 And over these  three presidents; of whom Daniel was first: that the princes might  give accounts unto them, and the king should have no damage.    
6:3 Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes,  because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to set  him over the whole realm.    
6:4 Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against  Daniel concerning the kingdom; but they could find none occasion nor  fault; forasmuch as he was faithful, neither was there any error or  fault found in him.    
6:5 Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this  Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.    
6:6 Then these presidents and princes assembled together to the king,  and said thus unto him, King Darius, live for ever.    
6:7 All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes,  the counsellors, and the captains, have consulted together to  establish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree, that whosoever  shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee,  O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.    
6:8 Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it  be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which  altereth not.    
6:9 Wherefore king Darius signed the writing and the decree.    
6:10 Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into  his house; and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem,  he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave  thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.    
6:11 Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making  supplication before his God.    
6:12 Then they came near, and spake before the king concerning the  king's decree; Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that  shall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save of  thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered  and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and  Persians, which altereth not.    
6:13 Then answered they and said before the king, That Daniel, which  is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O  king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition  three times a day.    
6:14 Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased  with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he  laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him.    
6:15 Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king,  Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That no  decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed.    
6:16 Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him  into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Thy  God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee.    
6:17 And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and  the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his  lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.    
6:18 Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting:  neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep  went from him.    
6:19 Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste  unto the den of lions.    
6:20 And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice  unto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant  of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to  deliver thee from the lions?  
6:21 Then said Daniel unto the king, O  king, live for ever.    
6:22 My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that  they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in  me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt.    
6:23 Then was the king exceedingly glad for him, and commanded that  they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out  of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he  believed in his God.    
6:24 And the king commanded, and they brought those men which had  accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their  children, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and  brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of the  den.    
6:25 Then king Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages,  that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.    
6:26 I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble  and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, and  stedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed,  and his dominion shall be even unto the end.    
6:27 He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders in  heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the  lions.    
6:28 So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign  of Cyrus the Persian.    
7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream  and visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream, and  told the sum of the matters.    
7:2 Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and, behold,  the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea.    
7:3 And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from  another.    
7:4 The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings: I beheld till  the wings thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth,  and made stand upon the feet as a man, and a man's heart was given to  it.    
7:5 And behold another beast, a second, like to a bear, and it raised  up itself on one side, and it had three ribs in the mouth of it  between the teeth of it: and they said thus unto it, Arise, devour  much flesh.    
7:6 After this I beheld, and lo another, like a leopard, which had  upon the back of it four wings of a fowl; the beast had also four  heads; and dominion was given to it.    
7:7 After this I saw in the night visions, and behold a fourth beast,  dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron  teeth: it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with  the feet of it: and it was diverse from all the beasts that were  before it; and it had ten horns.    
7:8 I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them  another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns  plucked up by the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the  eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things.    
7:9 I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days  did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head  like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his  wheels as burning fire.    
7:10 A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousand  thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand  stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.    
7:11 I beheld then because of the voice of the great words which the  horn spake: I beheld even till the beast was slain, and his body  destroyed, and given to the burning flame.    
7:12 As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion  taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.    
7:13 I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man  came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and  they brought him near before him.    
7:14 And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that  all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is  an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom  that which shall not be destroyed.    
7:15 I Daniel was grieved in my spirit in the midst of my body, and  the visions of my head troubled me.    
7:16 I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the  truth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the interpretation  of the things.    
7:17 These great beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shall  arise out of the earth.    
7:18 But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and  possess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever.    
7:19 Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast, which was  diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were of  iron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, and  stamped the residue with his feet; 
7:20 And of the ten horns that were  in his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom three  fell; even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very  great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows.    
7:21 I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and  prevailed against them; 
7:22 Until the Ancient of days came, and  judgment was given to the saints of the most High; and the time came  that the saints possessed the kingdom.    
7:23 Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon  earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the  whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.    
7:24 And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall  arise: and another shall rise after them; and he shall be diverse from  the first, and he shall subdue three kings.    
7:25 And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shall  wear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times and  laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and  the dividing of time.    
7:26 But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his  dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end.    
7:27 And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom  under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of  the most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all  dominions shall serve and obey him.    
7:28 Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for me Daniel, my  cogitations much troubled me, and my countenance changed in me: but I  kept the matter in my heart.    
8:1 In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision  appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which appeared unto  me at the first.    
8:2 And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I was  at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw  in a vision, and I was by the river of Ulai.    
8:3 Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood  before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were  high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.    
8:4 I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so  that no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any that  could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and  became great.    
8:5 And as I was considering, behold, an he goat came from the west on  the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat  had a notable horn between his eyes.    
8:6 And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seen  standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power.    
8:7 And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with  choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: and  there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast him  down to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none that  could deliver the ram out of his hand.    
8:8 Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong,  the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones toward  the four winds of heaven.    
8:9 And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed  exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the  pleasant land.    
8:10 And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it cast down  some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon  them.    
8:11 Yea, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by  him the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of the sanctuary  was cast down.    
8:12 And an host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason  of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and it  practised, and prospered.    
8:13 Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that  certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the  daily sacrifice, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the  sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?  
8:14 And he said  unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the  sanctuary be cleansed.    
8:15 And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision,  and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the  appearance of a man.    
8:16 And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Ulai, which  called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision.    
8:17 So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid,  and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man:  for at the time of the end shall be the vision.    
8:18 Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my face  toward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright.    
8:19 And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the  last end of the indignation: for at the time appointed the end shall  be.    
8:20 The ram which thou sawest having two horns are the kings of Media  and Persia.    
8:21 And the rough goat is the king of Grecia: and the great horn that  is between his eyes is the first king.    
8:22 Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four  kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in his power.    
8:23 And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors  are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding  dark sentences, shall stand up.    
8:24 And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power: and he  shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shall  destroy the mighty and the holy people.    
8:25 And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in  his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and by peace  shall destroy many: he shall also stand up against the Prince of  princes; but he shall be broken without hand.    
8:26 And the vision of the evening and the morning which was told is  true: wherefore shut thou up the vision; for it shall be for many  days.    
8:27 And I Daniel fainted, and was sick certain days; afterward I rose  up, and did the king's business; and I was astonished at the vision,  but none understood it.    
9:1 In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of  the Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans; 
9:2 In  the first year of his reign I Daniel understood by books the number of  the years, whereof the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet,  that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of  Jerusalem.    
9:3 And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and  supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes: 
9:4 And I  prayed unto the LORD my God, and made my confession, and said, O Lord,  the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them  that love him, and to them that keep his commandments; 
9:5 We have  sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have  rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments:  
9:6 Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which  spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to  all the people of the land.    
9:7 O LORD, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion  of faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants  of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are far  off, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, because  of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.    
9:8 O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to our  princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.    
9:9 To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we  have rebelled against him; 
9:10 Neither have we obeyed the voice of  the LORD our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his  servants the prophets.    
9:11 Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing,  that they might not obey thy voice; therefore the curse is poured upon  us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of  God, because we have sinned against him.    
9:12 And he hath confirmed his words, which he spake against us, and  against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil:  for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done upon  Jerusalem.    
9:13 As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon  us: yet made we not our prayer before the LORD our God, that we might  turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.    
9:14 Therefore hath the LORD watched upon the evil, and brought it  upon us: for the LORD our God is righteous in all his works which he  doeth: for we obeyed not his voice.    
9:15 And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth out  of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee renown,  as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.    
9:16 O LORD, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let  thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy  holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our  fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that  are about us.    
9:17 Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his  supplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is  desolate, for the Lord's sake.    
9:18 O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyes, and  behold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: for  we do not present our supplications before thee for our  righteousnesses, but for thy great mercies.    
9:19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; defer not,  for thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are called  by thy name.    
9:20 And whiles I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and  the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the  LORD my God for the holy mountain of my God; 
9:21 Yea, whiles I was  speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the  vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about  the time of the evening oblation.    
9:22 And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am  now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.    
9:23 At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment came forth,  and I am come to shew thee; for thou art greatly beloved: therefore  understand the matter, and consider the vision.    
9:24 Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy  city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to  make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting  righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint  the most Holy.    
9:25 Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the  commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the  Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street  shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.    
9:26 And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but  not for himself: and the people of the prince that shall come shall  destroy the city and the sanctuary; and the end thereof shall be with  a flood, and unto the end of the war desolations are determined.    
9:27 And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and in  the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to  cease, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it  desolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall be  poured upon the desolate.    
10:1 In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed  unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was  true, but the time appointed was long: and he understood the thing,  and had understanding of the vision.    
10:2 In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks.    
10:3 I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth,  neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were  fulfilled.    
10:4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by  the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel; 
10:5 Then I lifted up  mine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen,  whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz: 
10:6 His body also  was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and  his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour to  polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a  multitude.    
10:7 And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with me  saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that they  fled to hide themselves.    
10:8 Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there  remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me into  corruption, and I retained no strength.    
10:9 Yet heard I the voice of his words: and when I heard the voice of  his words, then was I in a deep sleep on my face, and my face toward  the ground.    
10:10 And, behold, an hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and  upon the palms of my hands.    
10:11 And he said unto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved, understand  the words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright: for unto thee am  I now sent.    And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling.    
10:12 Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day  that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself  before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words.    
10:13 But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and  twenty days: but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help  me; and I remained there with the kings of Persia.    
10:14 Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy  people in the latter days: for yet the vision is for many days.    
10:15 And when he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face toward  the ground, and I became dumb.    
10:16 And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men touched  my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him that  stood before me, O my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned upon  me, and I have retained no strength.    
10:17 For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord?  for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither  is there breath left in me.    
10:18 Then there came again and touched me one like the appearance of  a man, and he strengthened me, 
10:19 And said, O man greatly beloved,  fear not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he  had spoken unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak;  for thou hast strengthened me.    
10:20 Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee? and now  will I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am gone  forth, lo, the prince of Grecia shall come.    
10:21 But I will shew thee that which is noted in the scripture of  truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, but  Michael your prince.    
11:1 Also I in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood to  confirm and to strengthen him.    
11:2 And now will I shew thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand up  yet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than  they all: and by his strength through his riches he shall stir up all  against the realm of Grecia.    
11:3 And a mighty king shall stand up, that shall rule with great  dominion, and do according to his will.    
11:4 And when he shall stand up, his kingdom shall be broken, and  shall be divided toward the four winds of heaven; and not to his  posterity, nor according to his dominion which he ruled: for his  kingdom shall be plucked up, even for others beside those.    
11:5 And the king of the south shall be strong, and one of his  princes; and he shall be strong above him, and have dominion; his  dominion shall be a great dominion.    
11:6 And in the end of years they shall join themselves together; for  the king's daughter of the south shall come to the king of the north  to make an agreement: but she shall not retain the power of the arm;  neither shall he stand, nor his arm: but she shall be given up, and  they that brought her, and he that begat her, and he that strengthened  her in these times.    
11:7 But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his  estate, which shall come with an army, and shall enter into the  fortress of the king of the north, and shall deal against them, and  shall prevail: 
11:8 And shall also carry captives into Egypt their  gods, with their princes, and with their precious vessels of silver  and of gold; and he shall continue more years than the king of the  north.    
11:9 So the king of the south shall come into his kingdom, and shall  return into his own land.    
11:10 But his sons shall be stirred up, and shall assemble a multitude  of great forces: and one shall certainly come, and overflow, and pass  through: then shall he return, and be stirred up, even to his  fortress.    
11:11 And the king of the south shall be moved with choler, and shall  come forth and fight with him, even with the king of the north: and he  shall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shall be given  into his hand.    
11:12 And when he hath taken away the multitude, his heart shall be  lifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shall not  be strengthened by it.    
11:13 For the king of the north shall return, and shall set forth a  multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come after  certain years with a great army and with much riches.    
11:14 And in those times there shall many stand up against the king of  the south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves to  establish the vision; but they shall fall.    
11:15 So the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, and  take the most fenced cities: and the arms of the south shall not  withstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any  strength to withstand.    
11:16 But he that cometh against him shall do according to his own  will, and none shall stand before him: and he shall stand in the  glorious land, which by his hand shall be consumed.    
11:17 He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his  whole kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and he  shall give him the daughter of women, corrupting her: but she shall  not stand on his side, neither be for him.    
11:18 After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shall take  many: but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offered  by him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn  upon him.    
11:19 Then he shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: but  he shall stumble and fall, and not be found.    
11:20 Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the glory  of the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyed, neither in  anger, nor in battle.    
11:21 And in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they  shall not give the honour of the kingdom: but he shall come in  peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.    
11:22 And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from before  him, and shall be broken; yea, also the prince of the covenant.    
11:23 And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully:  for he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small people.    
11:24 He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the  province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor  his fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey, and spoil,  and riches: yea, and he shall forecast his devices against the strong  holds, even for a time.    
11:25 And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king  of the south with a great army; and the king of the south shall be  stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shall  not stand: for they shall forecast devices against him.    
11:26 Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroy  him, and his army shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain.    
11:27 And both of these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief, and  they shall speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: for yet  the end shall be at the time appointed.    
11:28 Then shall he return into his land with great riches; and his  heart shall be against the holy covenant; and he shall do exploits,  and return to his own land.    
11:29 At the time appointed he shall return, and come toward the  south; but it shall not be as the former, or as the latter.    
11:30 For the ships of Chittim shall come against him: therefore he  shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy  covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence  with them that forsake the holy covenant.    
11:31 And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the  sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and  they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate.    
11:32 And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by  flatteries: but the people that do know their God shall be strong, and  do exploits.    
11:33 And they that understand among the people shall instruct many:  yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and by  spoil, many days.    
11:34 Now when they shall fall, they shall be holpen with a little  help: but many shall cleave to them with flatteries.    
11:35 And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and  to purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: because  it is yet for a time appointed.    
11:36 And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt  himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak  marvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the  indignation be accomplished: for that that is determined shall be  done.    
11:37 Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire  of women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all.    
11:38 But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces: and a god  whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold, and silver, and  with precious stones, and pleasant things.    
11:39 Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god,  whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall cause  them to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain.    
11:40 And at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at  him: and the king of the north shall come against him like a  whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; and  he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over.    
11:41 He shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countries  shall be overthrown: but these shall escape out of his hand, even  Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.    
11:42 He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and the  land of Egypt shall not escape.    
11:43 But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of  silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans and  the Ethiopians shall be at his steps.    
11:44 But tidings out of the east and out of the north shall trouble  him: therefore he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, and  utterly to make away many.    
11:45 And he shall plant the tabernacles of his palace between the  seas in the glorious holy mountain; yet he shall come to his end, and  none shall help him.    
12:1 And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which  standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of  trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same  time: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that  shall be found written in the book.    
12:2 And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake,  some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.    
12:3 And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the  firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for  ever and ever.    
12:4 But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to  the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be  increased.    
12:5 Then I Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the one  on this side of the bank of the river, and the other on that side of  the bank of the river.    
12:6 And one said to the man clothed in linen, which was upon the  waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?  
12:7 And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was upon the waters  of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto  heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a  time, times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished to  scatter the power of the holy people, all these things shall be  finished.    
12:8 And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what  shall be the end of these things?  
12:9 And he said, Go thy way,  Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the  end.    
12:10 Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the  wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; but  the wise shall understand.    
12:11 And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away,  and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a  thousand two hundred and ninety days.    
12:12 Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three  hundred and five and thirty days.    
12:13 But go thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest,  and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.          Hosea      
1:1 The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea, the son of Beeri, in  the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in  the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.    
1:2 The beginning of the word of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said  to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of  whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, departing from  the LORD.    
1:3 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which  conceived, and bare him a son.    
1:4 And the LORD said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a  little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of  Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.    
1:5 And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow  of Israel, in the valley of Jezreel.    
1:6 And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And God said unto  him, Call her name Loruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon the  house of Israel; but I will utterly take them away.    
1:7 But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them  by the LORD their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword,  nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.    
1:8 Now when she had weaned Loruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son.    
1:9 Then said God, Call his name Loammi: for ye are not my people, and  I will not be your God.    
1:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of  the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to  pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my  people, there it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the  living God.    
1:11 Then shall the children of Judah and the children of Israel be  gathered together, and appoint themselves one head, and they shall  come up out of the land: for great shall be the day of Jezreel.    
2:1 Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.    
2:2 Plead with your mother, plead: for she is not my wife, neither am  I her husband: let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her  sight, and her adulteries from between her breasts; 
2:3 Lest I strip  her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her  as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her with  thirst.    
2:4 And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they be the  children of whoredoms.    
2:5 For their mother hath played the harlot: she that conceived them  hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that  give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my  drink.    
2:6 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and make a  wall, that she shall not find her paths.    
2:7 And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake  them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: then shall she  say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better  with me than now.    
2:8 For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and  multiplied her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal.    
2:9 Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in the time  thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool  and my flax given to cover her nakedness.    
2:10 And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers,  and none shall deliver her out of mine hand.    
2:11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast days, her new  moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts.    
2:12 And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath  said, These are my rewards that my lovers have given me: and I will  make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them.    
2:13 And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, wherein she burned  incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her  jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORD.    
2:14 Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the  wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her.    
2:15 And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of  Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of  her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of  Egypt.    
2:16 And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call  me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali.    
2:17 For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and  they shall no more be remembered by their name.    
2:18 And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts  of the field and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping  things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the  battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely.    
2:19 And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth  thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness,  and in mercies.    
2:20 I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt  know the LORD.    
2:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the  LORD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; 
2:22 And  the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they  shall hear Jezreel.    
2:23 And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy  upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to them which  were not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, Thou art  my God.    
3:1 Then said the LORD unto me, Go yet, love a woman beloved of her  friend, yet an adulteress, according to the love of the LORD toward  the children of Israel, who look to other gods, and love flagons of  wine.    
3:2 So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an  homer of barley, and an half homer of barley: 
3:3 And I said unto her,  Thou shalt abide for me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and  thou shalt not be for another man: so will I also be for thee.    
3:4 For the children of Israel shall abide many days without a king,  and without a prince, and without a sacrifice, and without an image,  and without an ephod, and without teraphim: 
3:5 Afterward shall the  children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David  their king; and shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter  days.    
4:1 Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD  hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is  no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.    
4:2 By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing  adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood.    
4:3 Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth  therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the  fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.    
4:4 Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people are as  they that strive with the priest.    
4:5 Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall  fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother.    
4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast  rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no  priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will  also forget thy children.    
4:7 As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will  I change their glory into shame.    
4:8 They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on  their iniquity.    
4:9 And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish  them for their ways, and reward them their doings.    
4:10 For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit  whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take  heed to the LORD.    
4:11 Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart.    
4:12 My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth  unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused them to err, and  they have gone a whoring from under their God.    
4:13 They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense  upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow  thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and  your spouses shall commit adultery.    
4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor  your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated  with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people  that doth not understand shall fall.    
4:15 Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend;  and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear,  The LORD liveth.    
4:16 For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD  will feed them as a lamb in a large place.    
4:17 Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.    
4:18 Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually:  her rulers with shame do love, Give ye.    
4:19 The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be  ashamed because of their sacrifices.    
5:1 Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give  ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye  have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.    
5:2 And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have  been a rebuker of them all.    
5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim,  thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.    
5:4 They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the  spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known  the LORD.    
5:5 And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall  Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with  them.    
5:6 They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the  LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from  them.    
5:7 They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have  begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their  portions.    
5:8 Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud  at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin.    
5:9 Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes  of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.    
5:10 The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound:  therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.    
5:11 Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly  walked after the commandment.    
5:12 Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of  Judah as rottenness.    
5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went  Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal  you, nor cure you of your wound.    
5:14 For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the  house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away,  and none shall rescue him.    
5:15 I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their  offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me  early.    
6:1 Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he  will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up.    
6:2 After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise  us up, and we shall live in his sight.    
6:3 Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the LORD: his going  forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as the  rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.    
6:4 O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do  unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the early  dew it goeth away.    
6:5 Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by  the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth  forth.    
6:6 For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God  more than burnt offerings.    
6:7 But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they  dealt treacherously against me.    
6:8 Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, and is polluted with  blood.    
6:9 And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests  murder in the way by consent: for they commit lewdness.    
6:10 I have seen an horrible thing in the house of Israel: there is  the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is defiled.    
6:11 Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned  the captivity of my people.    
7:1 When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was  discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood;  and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.    
7:2 And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their  wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are  before my face.    
7:3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes  with their lies.    
7:4 They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who  ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be  leavened.    
7:5 In the day of our king the princes have made him sick with bottles  of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.    
7:6 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie  in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth  as a flaming fire.    
7:7 They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all  their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.    
7:8 Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake  not turned.    
7:9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea,  gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.    
7:10 And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not  return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this.    
7:11 Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to  Egypt, they go to Assyria.    
7:12 When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring  them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their  congregation hath heard.    
7:13 Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them!  because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed  them, yet they have spoken lies against me.    
7:14 And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they  howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine,  and they rebel against me.    
7:15 Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do they  imagine mischief against me.    
7:16 They return, but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful  bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their  tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.    
8:1 Set the trumpet to thy mouth. He shall come as an eagle against  the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and  trespassed against my law.    
8:2 Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee.    
8:3 Israel hath cast off the thing that is good: the enemy shall  pursue him.    
8:4 They have set up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and  I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them  idols, that they may be cut off.    
8:5 Thy calf, O Samaria, hath cast thee off; mine anger is kindled  against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency?  
8:6  For from Israel was it also: the workman made it; therefore it is not  God: but the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.    
8:7 For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: it  hath no stalk; the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, the  strangers shall swallow it up.    
8:8 Israel is swallowed up: now shall they be among the Gentiles as a  vessel wherein is no pleasure.    
8:9 For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by himself:  Ephraim hath hired lovers.    
8:10 Yea, though they have hired among the nations, now will I gather  them, and they shall sorrow a little for the burden of the king of  princes.    
8:11 Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sin, altars shall be  unto him to sin.    
8:12 I have written to him the great things of my law, but they were  counted as a strange thing.    
8:13 They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings, and  eat it; but the LORD accepteth them not; now will he remember their  iniquity, and visit their sins: they shall return to Egypt.    
8:14 For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and buildeth temples; and  Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his  cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.    
9:1 Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, as other people: for thou hast  gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every  cornfloor.    
9:2 The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine  shall fail in her.    
9:3 They shall not dwell in the LORD's land; but Ephraim shall return  to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria.    
9:4 They shall not offer wine offerings to the LORD, neither shall  they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the  bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their  bread for their soul shall not come into the house of the LORD.    
9:5 What will ye do in the solemn day, and in the day of the feast of  the LORD?  
9:6 For, lo, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt  shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pleasant places for  their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns shall be in their  tabernacles.    
9:7 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come;  Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad,  for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred.    
9:8 The watchman of Ephraim was with my God: but the prophet is a  snare of a fowler in all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.    
9:9 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah:  therefore he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins.    
9:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers  as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first time: but they went to  Baalpeor, and separated themselves unto that shame; and their  abominations were according as they loved.    
9:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the  birth, and from the womb, and from the conception.    
9:12 Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them,  that there shall not be a man left: yea, woe also to them when I  depart from them!  
9:13 Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, is planted in a  pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the  murderer.    
9:14 Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying  womb and dry breasts.    
9:15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for  the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I  will love them no more: all their princes are revolters.    
9:16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no  fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even the beloved  fruit of their womb.    
9:17 My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto  him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.    
10:1 Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself:  according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars;  according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images.    
10:2 Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall  break down their altars, he shall spoil their images.    
10:3 For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not  the LORD; what then should a king do to us?  
10:4 They have spoken  words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth  up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.    
10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of  Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests  thereof that rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is  departed from it.    
10:6 It shall be also carried unto Assyria for a present to king  Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his  own counsel.    
10:7 As for Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water.    
10:8 The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be  destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars;  and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall  on us.    
10:9 O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they  stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not  overtake them.    
10:10 It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people  shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in  their two furrows.    
10:11 And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread  out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make  Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods.    
10:12 Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your  fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain  righteousness upon you.    
10:13 Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have  eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the  multitude of thy mighty men.    
10:14 Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy  fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day  of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children.    
10:15 So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in  a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.    
11:1 When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out  of Egypt.    
11:2 As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto  Baalim, and burned incense to graven images.    
11:3 I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they  knew not that I healed them.    
11:4 I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to  them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat  unto them.    
11:5 He shall not return into the land of Egypt, and the Assyrian  shall be his king, because they refused to return.    
11:6 And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his  branches, and devour them, because of their own counsels.    
11:7 And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called  them to the most High, none at all would exalt him.    
11:8 How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee,  Israel?  how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as  Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled  together.    
11:9 I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not  return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in  the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.    
11:10 They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when  he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west.    
11:11 They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of  the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the  LORD.    
11:12 Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel  with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the  saints.    
12:1 Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he  daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with  the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt.    
12:2 The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish  Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he  recompense him.    
12:3 He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength  he had power with God: 
12:4 Yea, he had power over the angel, and  prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him in  Bethel, and there he spake with us; 
12:5 Even the LORD God of hosts;  the LORD is his memorial.    
12:6 Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment and wait  on thy God continually.    
12:7 He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he  loveth to oppress.    
12:8 And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out  substance: in all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that  were sin.    
12:9 And I that am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet  make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast.    
12:10 I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied  visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets.    
12:11 Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they  sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the  furrows of the fields.    
12:12 And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for  a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep.    
12:13 And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a  prophet was he preserved.    
12:14 Ephraim provoked him to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he  leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto  him.    
13:1 When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but  when he offended in Baal, he died.    
13:2 And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images  of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all  of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that  sacrifice kiss the calves.    
13:3 Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud and as the early dew  that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out  of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.    
13:4 Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt  know no god but me: for there is no saviour beside me.    
13:5 I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.    
13:6 According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were  filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me.    
13:7 Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way  will I observe them: 
13:8 I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved  of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I  devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them.    
13:9 O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine help.    
13:10 I will be thy king: where is any other that may save thee in all  thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and  princes?  
13:11 I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in  my wrath.    
13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.    
13:13 The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an  unwise son; for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking  forth of children.    
13:14 I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem  them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be  thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.    
13:15 Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall  come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his  spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall  spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.    
13:16 Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her  God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in  pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.    
14:1 O israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by  thine iniquity.    
14:2 Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take  away all iniquity, and receive us graciously: so will we render the  calves of our lips.    
14:3 Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither  will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in  thee the fatherless findeth mercy.    
14:4 I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine  anger is turned away from him.    
14:5 I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and  cast forth his roots as Lebanon.    
14:6 His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive  tree, and his smell as Lebanon.    
14:7 They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive  as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the  wine of Lebanon.    
14:8 Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have  heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is  thy fruit found.    
14:9 Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and  he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just  shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.          Joel      
1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.    
1:2 Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land.    Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?  
1:3  Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell their  children, and their children another generation.    
1:4 That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and  that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that  which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpiller eaten.    
1:5 Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of wine,  because of the new wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.    
1:6 For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number,  whose teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of a  great lion.    
1:7 He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath made  it clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white.    
1:8 Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her  youth.    
1:9 The meat offering and the drink offering is cut off from the house  of the LORD; the priests, the LORD's ministers, mourn.    
1:10 The field is wasted, the land mourneth; for the corn is wasted:  the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.    
1:11 Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen; howl, O ye vinedressers, for the  wheat and for the barley; because the harvest of the field is  perished.    
1:12 The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth; the  pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all the  trees of the field, are withered: because joy is withered away from  the sons of men.    
1:13 Gird yourselves, and lament, ye priests: howl, ye ministers of  the altar: come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God:  for the meat offering and the drink offering is withholden from the  house of your God.    
1:14 Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and  all the inhabitants of the land into the house of the LORD your God,  and cry unto the LORD, 
1:15 Alas for the day! for the day of the LORD  is at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come.    
1:16 Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness  from the house of our God?  
1:17 The seed is rotten under their clods,  the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the corn  is withered.    
1:18 How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed,  because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are made  desolate.    
1:19 O LORD, to thee will I cry: for the fire hath devoured the  pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of  the field.    
1:20 The beasts of the field cry also unto thee: for the rivers of  waters are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the  wilderness.    
2:1 Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy  mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of  the LORD cometh, for it is nigh at hand; 
2:2 A day of darkness and of  gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning  spread upon the mountains: a great people and a strong; there hath not  been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to the  years of many generations.    
2:3 A fire devoureth before them; and behind them a flame burneth: the  land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate  wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them.    
2:4 The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and as  horsemen, so shall they run.    
2:5 Like the noise of chariots on the tops of mountains shall they  leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as  a strong people set in battle array.    
2:6 Before their face the people shall be much pained: all faces shall  gather blackness.    
2:7 They shall run like mighty men; they shall climb the wall like men  of war; and they shall march every one on his ways, and they shall not  break their ranks: 
2:8 Neither shall one thrust another; they shall  walk every one in his path: and when they fall upon the sword, they  shall not be wounded.    
2:9 They shall run to and fro in the city; they shall run upon the  wall, they shall climb up upon the houses; they shall enter in at the  windows like a thief.    
2:10 The earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall tremble: the  sun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their  shining: 
2:11 And the LORD shall utter his voice before his army: for  his camp is very great: for he is strong that executeth his word: for  the day of the LORD is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?  
2:12 Therefore also now, saith the LORD, turn ye even to me with all  your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning:  
2:13 And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the  LORD your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of  great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.    
2:14 Who knoweth if he will return and repent, and leave a blessing  behind him; even a meat offering and a drink offering unto the LORD  your God?  
2:15 Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a  solemn assembly: 
2:16 Gather the people, sanctify the congregation,  assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the  breasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out  of her closet.    
2:17 Let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep between the  porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O LORD, and  give not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over  them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their God?  
2:18 Then will the LORD be jealous for his land, and pity his people.    
2:19 Yea, the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will  send you corn, and wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith:  and I will no more make you a reproach among the heathen: 
2:20 But I  will remove far off from you the northern army, and will drive him  into a land barren and desolate, with his face toward the east sea,  and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink shall come  up, and his ill savour shall come up, because he hath done great  things.    
2:21 Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the LORD will do great  things.    
2:22 Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of the  wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree and  the vine do yield their strength.    
2:23 Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD your  God: for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will  cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter  rain in the first month.    
2:24 And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall  overflow with wine and oil.    
2:25 And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten,  the cankerworm, and the caterpiller, and the palmerworm, my great army  which I sent among you.    
2:26 And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and praise the name  of the LORD your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and my  people shall never be ashamed.    
2:27 And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am  the LORD your God, and none else: and my people shall never be  ashamed.    
2:28 And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my  spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall  prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see  visions: 
2:29 And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in  those days will I pour out my spirit.    
2:30 And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood,  and fire, and pillars of smoke.    
2:31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,  before the great and terrible day of the LORD come.    
2:32 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name  of the LORD shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem  shall be deliverance, as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whom  the LORD shall call.    
3:1 For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall bring  again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, 
3:2 I will also gather all  nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and  will plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel,  whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted my land.    
3:3 And they have cast lots for my people; and have given a boy for an  harlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they might drink.    
3:4 Yea, and what have ye to do with me, O Tyre, and Zidon, and all  the coasts of Palestine? will ye render me a recompence? and if ye  recompense me, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence upon  your own head; 
3:5 Because ye have taken my silver and my gold, and  have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things: 
3:6 The  children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto  the Grecians, that ye might remove them far from their border.    
3:7 Behold, I will raise them out of the place whither ye have sold  them, and will return your recompence upon your own head: 
3:8 And I  will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children  of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people far  off: for the LORD hath spoken it.    
3:9 Proclaim ye this among the Gentiles; Prepare war, wake up the  mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up: 
3:10  Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruninghooks into spears:  let the weak say, I am strong.    
3:11 Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gather  yourselves together round about: thither cause thy mighty ones to come  down, O LORD.    
3:12 Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley of  Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round  about.    
3:13 Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get you  down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness  is great.    
3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of  the LORD is near in the valley of decision.    
3:15 The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall  withdraw their shining.    
3:16 The LORD also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice from  Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but the LORD  will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of  Israel.    
3:17 So shall ye know that I am the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, my  holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall no  strangers pass through her any more.    
3:18 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall  drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the  rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall come  forth out of the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley of  Shittim.    
3:19 Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate  wilderness, for the violence against the children of Judah, because  they have shed innocent blood in their land.    
3:20 But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to  generation.    
3:21 For I will cleanse their blood that I have not cleansed: for the  LORD dwelleth in Zion.          Amos      
1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the herdmen of Tekoa, which he  saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the  days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the  earthquake.    
1:2 And he said, The LORD will roar from Zion, and utter his voice  from Jerusalem; and the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, and  the top of Carmel shall wither.    
1:3 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Damascus, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have  threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron: 
1:4 But I will  send a fire into the house of Hazael, which shall devour the palaces  of Benhadad.    
1:5 I will break also the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant  from the plain of Aven, and him that holdeth the sceptre from the  house of Eden: and the people of Syria shall go into captivity unto  Kir, saith the LORD.    
1:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Gaza, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they  carried away captive the whole captivity, to deliver them up to Edom:  
1:7 But I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shall devour the  palaces thereof: 
1:8 And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod,  and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ashkelon, and I will turn mine  hand against Ekron: and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish,  saith the Lord GOD.    
1:9 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Tyrus, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they  delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and remembered not the  brotherly covenant: 
1:10 But I will send a fire on the wall of Tyrus,  which shall devour the palaces thereof.    
1:11 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Edom, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he did  pursue his brother with the sword, and did cast off all pity, and his  anger did tear perpetually, and he kept his wrath for ever: 
1:12 But I  will send a fire upon Teman, which shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.    
1:13 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of the children of  Ammon, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof;  because they have ripped up the women with child of Gilead, that they  might enlarge their border: 
1:14 But I will kindle a fire in the wall  of Rabbah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof, with shouting in  the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind: 
1:15  And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together,  saith the LORD.    
2:1 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Moab, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burned  the bones of the king of Edom into lime: 
2:2 But I will send a fire  upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kirioth: and Moab shall  die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet: 
2:3  And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all  the princes thereof with him, saith the LORD.    
2:4 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Judah, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have  despised the law of the LORD, and have not kept his commandments, and  their lies caused them to err, after the which their fathers have  walked: 
2:5 But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the  palaces of Jerusalem.    
2:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Israel, and for  four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they sold  the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes; 
2:7 That  pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn  aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father will go in unto  the same maid, to profane my holy name: 
2:8 And they lay themselves  down upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar, and they drink the  wine of the condemned in the house of their god.    
2:9 Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the  height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed  his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.    
2:10 Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty  years through the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.    
2:11 And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men  for Nazarites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the  LORD.    
2:12 But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the  prophets, saying, Prophesy not.    
2:13 Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that is full  of sheaves.    
2:14 Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong  shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver  himself: 
2:15 Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he  that is swift of foot shall not deliver himself: neither shall he that  rideth the horse deliver himself.    
2:16 And he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked  in that day, saith the LORD.    
3:1 Hear this word that the LORD hath spoken against you, O children  of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the land  of Egypt, saying, 
3:2 You only have I known of all the families of the  earth: therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.    
3:3 Can two walk together, except they be agreed?  
3:4 Will a lion  roar in the forest, when he hath no prey? will a young lion cry out of  his den, if he have taken nothing?  
3:5 Can a bird fall in a snare  upon the earth, where no gin is for him?  shall one take up a snare  from the earth, and have taken nothing at all?  
3:6 Shall a trumpet be  blown in the city, and the people not be afraid?  shall there be evil  in a city, and the LORD hath not done it?  
3:7 Surely the Lord GOD  will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the  prophets.    
3:8 The lion hath roared, who will not fear? the Lord GOD hath spoken,  who can but prophesy?  
3:9 Publish in the palaces at Ashdod, and in  the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves upon  the mountains of Samaria, and behold the great tumults in the midst  thereof, and the oppressed in the midst thereof.    
3:10 For they know not to do right, saith the LORD, who store up  violence and robbery in their palaces.    
3:11 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; An adversary there shall be  even round about the land; and he shall bring down thy strength from  thee, and thy palaces shall be spoiled.    
3:12 Thus saith the LORD; As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of  the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children of  Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and  in Damascus in a couch.    
3:13 Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord GOD,  the God of hosts, 
3:14 That in the day that I shall visit the  transgressions of Israel upon him I will also visit the altars of  Bethel: and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to the  ground.    
3:15 And I will smite the winter house with the summer house; and the  houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end,  saith the LORD.    
4:1 Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that are in the mountain of  Samaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, which say to  their masters, Bring, and let us drink.    
4:2 The Lord GOD hath sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shall  come upon you, that he will take you away with hooks, and your  posterity with fishhooks.    
4:3 And ye shall go out at the breaches, every cow at that which is  before her; and ye shall cast them into the palace, saith the LORD.    
4:4 Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgression;  and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after three  years: 
4:5 And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and  proclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you, O ye  children of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.    
4:6 And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,  and want of bread in all your places: yet have ye not returned unto  me, saith the LORD.    
4:7 And also I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet  three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city,  and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained  upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered.    
4:8 So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; but  they were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the  LORD.    
4:9 I have smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens and  your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the  palmerworm devoured them: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the  LORD.    
4:10 I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt:  your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away your  horses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto your  nostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.    
4:11 I have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and  Gomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet  have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.    
4:12 Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and because I will  do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.    
4:13 For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind,  and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning  darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The LORD,  The God of hosts, is his name.    
5:1 Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation,  O house of Israel.    
5:2 The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is  forsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up.    
5:3 For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out by a thousand  shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an hundred shall  leave ten, to the house of Israel.    
5:4 For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and  ye shall live: 
5:5 But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and  pass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and  Bethel shall come to nought.    
5:6 Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in  the house of Joseph, and devour it, and there be none to quench it in  Bethel.    
5:7 Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness in  the earth, 
5:8 Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and  turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark  with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them  out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name: 
5:9 That  strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled  shall come against the fortress.    
5:10 They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that  speaketh uprightly.    
5:11 Forasmuch therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye  take from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone,  but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards,  but ye shall not drink wine of them.    
5:12 For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins:  they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor  in the gate from their right.    
5:13 Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it is  an evil time.    
5:14 Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the  God of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken.    
5:15 Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the  gate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto the  remnant of Joseph.    
5:16 Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD, saith thus;  Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall say in all the  highways, Alas! alas!  and they shall call the husbandman to mourning,  and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.    
5:17 And in all vineyards shall be wailing: for I will pass through  thee, saith the LORD.    
5:18 Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end is it  for you? the day of the LORD is darkness, and not light.    
5:19 As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went  into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit  him.    
5:20 Shall not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? even  very dark, and no brightness in it?  
5:21 I hate, I despise your feast  days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.    
5:22 Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, I  will not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offerings of  your fat beasts.    
5:23 Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not  hear the melody of thy viols.    
5:24 But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a  mighty stream.    
5:25 Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in the  wilderness forty years, O house of Israel?  
5:26 But ye have borne the  tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god,  which ye made to yourselves.    
5:27 Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,  saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.    
6:1 Woe to them that are at ease in Zion, and trust in the mountain of  Samaria, which are named chief of the nations, to whom the house of  Israel came!  
6:2 Pass ye unto Calneh, and see; and from thence go ye  to Hamath the great: then go down to Gath of the Philistines: be they  better than these kingdoms? or their border greater than your border?  
6:3 Ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence  to come near; 
6:4 That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselves  upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves  out of the midst of the stall; 
6:5 That chant to the sound of the  viol, and invent to themselves instruments of musick, like David; 
6:6  That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the chief  ointments: but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph.    
6:7 Therefore now shall they go captive with the first that go  captive, and the banquet of them that stretched themselves shall be  removed.    
6:8 The Lord GOD hath sworn by himself, saith the LORD the God of  hosts, I abhor the excellency of Jacob, and hate his palaces:  therefore will I deliver up the city with all that is therein.    
6:9 And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten men in one house,  that they shall die.    
6:10 And a man's uncle shall take him up, and he that burneth him, to  bring out the bones out of the house, and shall say unto him that is  by the sides of the house, Is there yet any with thee? and he shall  say, No. Then shall he say, Hold thy tongue: for we may not make  mention of the name of the LORD.    
6:11 For, behold, the LORD commandeth, and he will smite the great  house with breaches, and the little house with clefts.    
6:12 Shall horses run upon the rock? will one plow there with oxen?  for ye have turned judgment into gall, and the fruit of righteousness  into hemlock: 
6:13 Ye which rejoice in a thing of nought, which say,  Have we not taken to us horns by our own strength?  
6:14 But, behold,  I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saith the  LORD the God of hosts; and they shall afflict you from the entering in  of Hemath unto the river of the wilderness.    
7:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me; and, behold, he formed  grasshoppers in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth;  and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.    
7:2 And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the  grass of the land, then I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech thee:  by whom shall Jacob arise? for he is small.    
7:3 The LORD repented for this: It shall not be, saith the LORD.    
7:4 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and, behold, the Lord GOD  called to contend by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and did eat  up a part.    
7:5 Then said I, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech thee: by whom shall  Jacob arise? for he is small.    
7:6 The LORD repented for this: This also shall not be, saith the Lord  GOD.    
7:7 Thus he shewed me: and, behold, the LORD stood upon a wall made by  a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand.    
7:8 And the LORD said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A  plumbline. Then said the LORD, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the  midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more: 
7:9  And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of  Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of  Jeroboam with the sword.    
7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of  Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the  house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.    
7:11 For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel  shall surely be led away captive out of their own land.    
7:12 Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thee away into  the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: 
7:13 But  prophesy not again any more at Bethel: for it is the king's chapel,  and it is the king's court.    
7:14 Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet,  neither was I a prophet's son; but I was an herdman, and a gatherer of  sycomore fruit: 
7:15 And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and  the LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel.    
7:16 Now therefore hear thou the word of the LORD: Thou sayest,  Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not thy word against the house  of Isaac.    
7:17 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Thy wife shall be an harlot in the  city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy  land shall be divided by line; and thou shalt die in a polluted land:  and Israel shall surely go into captivity forth of his land.    
8:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and behold a basket of  summer fruit.    
8:2 And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A basket of summer  fruit. Then said the LORD unto me, The end is come upon my people of  Israel; I will not again pass by them any more.    
8:3 And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day, saith  the Lord GOD: there shall be many dead bodies in every place; they  shall cast them forth with silence.    
8:4 Hear this, O ye that swallow up the needy, even to make the poor  of the land to fail, 
8:5 Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that  we may sell corn? and the sabbath, that we may set forth wheat, making  the ephah small, and the shekel great, and falsifying the balances by  deceit?  
8:6 That we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a  pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?  
8:7 The LORD  hath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never forget any  of their works.    
8:8 Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that  dwelleth therein? and it shall rise up wholly as a flood; and it shall  be cast out and drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.    
8:9 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord GOD, that I  will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in  the clear day: 
8:10 And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all  your songs into lamentation; and I will bring up sackcloth upon all  loins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as the  mourning of an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day.    
8:11 Behold, the days come, saith the Lord GOD, that I will send a  famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but  of hearing the words of the LORD: 
8:12 And they shall wander from sea  to sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run to and fro  to seek the word of the LORD, and shall not find it.    
8:13 In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for  thirst.    
8:14 They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan,  liveth; and, The manner of Beersheba liveth; even they shall fall, and  never rise up again.    
9:1 I saw the LORD standing upon the altar: and he said, Smite the  lintel of the door, that the posts may shake: and cut them in the  head, all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: he  that fleeth of them shall not flee away, and he that escapeth of them  shall not be delivered.    
9:2 Though they dig into hell, thence shall mine hand take them;  though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down: 
9:3 And  though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and  take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the  bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and he shall  bite them: 
9:4 And though they go into captivity before their enemies,  thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will  set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.    
9:5 And the Lord GOD of hosts is he that toucheth the land, and it  shall melt, and all that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall rise  up wholly like a flood; and shall be drowned, as by the flood of  Egypt.    
9:6 It is he that buildeth his stories in the heaven, and hath founded  his troop in the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and  poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name.    
9:7 Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of  Israel? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land  of Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?  
9:8 Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, and  I will destroy it from off the face of the earth; saving that I will  not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith the LORD.    
9:9 For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among  all nations, like as corn is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the  least grain fall upon the earth.    
9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say,  The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us.    
9:11 In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is  fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up his  ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old: 
9:12 That they may  possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, which are called  by my name, saith the LORD that doeth this.    
9:13 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the plowman shall  overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed;  and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.    
9:14 And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israel, and  they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall  plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make  gardens, and eat the fruit of them.    
9:15 And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be  pulled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORD  thy God.          Obadiah      
1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning Edom;  We have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent among  the heathen, Arise ye, and let us rise up against her in battle.    
1:2 Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen: thou art greatly  despised.    
1:3 The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in  the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; that saith in his  heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground?  
1:4 Though thou exalt  thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars,  thence will I bring thee down, saith the LORD.    
1:5 If thieves came to thee, if robbers by night, (how art thou cut  off!)  would they not have stolen till they had enough? if the  grapegatherers came to thee, would they not leave some grapes?  
1:6  How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hidden things  sought up!  
1:7 All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even  to the border: the men that were at peace with thee have deceived  thee, and prevailed against thee; that they eat thy bread have laid a  wound under thee: there is none understanding in him.    
1:8 Shall I not in that day, saith the LORD, even destroy the wise men  out of Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?  
1:9 And thy  mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that every one of  the mount of Esau may be cut off by slaughter.    
1:10 For thy violence against thy brother Jacob shame shall cover  thee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever.    
1:11 In the day that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that  the strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered  into his gates, and cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one of  them.    
1:12 But thou shouldest not have looked on the day of thy brother in  the day that he became a stranger; neither shouldest thou have  rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction;  neither shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress.    
1:13 Thou shouldest not have entered into the gate of my people in the  day of their calamity; yea, thou shouldest not have looked on their  affliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their  substance in the day of their calamity; 
1:14 Neither shouldest thou  have stood in the crossway, to cut off those of his that did escape;  neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remain  in the day of distress.    
1:15 For the day of the LORD is near upon all the heathen: as thou  hast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall return upon  thine own head.    
1:16 For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all the  heathen drink continually, yea, they shall drink, and they shall  swallow down, and they shall be as though they had not been.    
1:17 But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be  holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.    
1:18 And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a  flame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle in  them, and devour them; and there shall not be any remaining of the  house of Esau; for the LORD hath spoken it.    
1:19 And they of the south shall possess the mount of Esau; and they  of the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields of  Ephraim, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.    
1:20 And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel shall  possess that of the Canaanites, even unto Zarephath; and the captivity  of Jerusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possess the cities of the  south.    
1:21 And saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge the mount of  Esau; and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.          Jonah      
1:1 Now the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the son of Amittai,  saying, 
1:2 Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it;  for their wickedness is come up before me.    
1:3 But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the  LORD, and went down to Joppa; and he found a ship going to Tarshish:  so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them  unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD.    
1:4 But the LORD sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a  mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken.    
1:5 Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man unto his god,  and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea, to  lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the  ship; and he lay, and was fast asleep.    
1:6 So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him, What meanest  thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will  think upon us, that we perish not.    
1:7 And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast lots,  that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast  lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah.    
1:8 Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause  this evil is upon us; What is thine occupation? and whence comest  thou? what is thy country? and of what people art thou?  
1:9 And he  said unto them, I am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD, the God of  heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land.    
1:10 Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him. Why hast  thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the  LORD, because he had told them.    
1:11 Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea  may be calm unto us? for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous.    
1:12 And he said unto them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the  sea; so shall the sea be calm unto you: for I know that for my sake  this great tempest is upon you.    
1:13 Nevertheless the men rowed hard to bring it to the land; but they  could not: for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous against them.    
1:14 Wherefore they cried unto the LORD, and said, We beseech thee, O  LORD, we beseech thee, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay  not upon us innocent blood: for thou, O LORD, hast done as it pleased  thee.    
1:15 So they look up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea: and the  sea ceased from her raging.    
1:16 Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice  unto the LORD, and made vows.    
1:17 Now the LORD had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And  Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.    
2:1 Then Jonah prayed unto the LORD his God out of the fish's belly,  
2:2 And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the LORD, and  he heard me; out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my  voice.    
2:3 For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas;  and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves  passed over me.    
2:4 Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again  toward thy holy temple.    
2:5 The waters compassed me about, even to the soul: the depth closed  me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head.    
2:6 I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her  bars was about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from  corruption, O LORD my God.    
2:7 When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and my  prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple.    
2:8 They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy.    
2:9 But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving; I  will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the LORD.    
2:10 And the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon  the dry land.    
3:1 And the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the second time, saying,  
3:2 Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the  preaching that I bid thee.    
3:3 So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of  the LORD. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days'  journey.    
3:4 And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he  cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown.    
3:5 So the people of Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast, and  put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them.    
3:6 For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his  throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth,  and sat in ashes.    
3:7 And he caused it to be proclaimed and published through Nineveh by  the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor  beast, herd nor flock, taste any thing: let them not feed, nor drink  water: 
3:8 But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry  mightily unto God: yea, let them turn every one from his evil way, and  from the violence that is in their hands.    
3:9 Who can tell if God will turn and repent, and turn away from his  fierce anger, that we perish not?  
3:10 And God saw their works, that  they turned from their evil way; and God repented of the evil, that he  had said that he would do unto them; and he did it not.    
4:1 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry.    
4:2 And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, was  not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled  before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and  merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of  the evil.    
4:3 Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for  it is better for me to die than to live.    
4:4 Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry?  
4:5 So Jonah  went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there  made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see  what would become of the city.    
4:6 And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over  Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from  his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd.    
4:7 But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it  smote the gourd that it withered.    
4:8 And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a  vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he  fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, It is better for me  to die than to live.    
4:9 And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd?  And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death.    
4:10 Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the  which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow; which came up in  a night, and perished in a night: 
4:11 And should not I spare Nineveh,  that great city, wherein are more then sixscore thousand persons that  cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also  much cattle?          Micah      
1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Micah the Morasthite in the  days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw  concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.    
1:2 Hear, all ye people; hearken, O earth, and all that therein is:  and let the Lord GOD be witness against you, the LORD from his holy  temple.    
1:3 For, behold, the LORD cometh forth out of his place, and will come  down, and tread upon the high places of the earth.    
1:4 And the mountains shall be molten under him, and the valleys shall  be cleft, as wax before the fire, and as the waters that are poured  down a steep place.    
1:5 For the transgression of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of  the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? is it not  Samaria? and what are the high places of Judah? are they not  Jerusalem?  
1:6 Therefore I will make Samaria as an heap of the field,  and as plantings of a vineyard: and I will pour down the stones  thereof into the valley, and I will discover the foundations thereof.    
1:7 And all the graven images thereof shall be beaten to pieces, and  all the hires thereof shall be burned with the fire, and all the idols  thereof will I lay desolate: for she gathered it of the hire of an  harlot, and they shall return to the hire of an harlot.    
1:8 Therefore I will wail and howl, I will go stripped and naked: I  will make a wailing like the dragons, and mourning as the owls.    
1:9 For her wound is incurable; for it is come unto Judah; he is come  unto the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.    
1:10 Declare ye it not at Gath, weep ye not at all: in the house of  Aphrah roll thyself in the dust.    
1:11 Pass ye away, thou inhabitant of Saphir, having thy shame naked:  the inhabitant of Zaanan came not forth in the mourning of Bethezel;  he shall receive of you his standing.    
1:12 For the inhabitant of Maroth waited carefully for good: but evil  came down from the LORD unto the gate of Jerusalem.    
1:13 O thou inhabitant of Lachish, bind the chariot to the swift  beast: she is the beginning of the sin to the daughter of Zion: for  the transgressions of Israel were found in thee.    
1:14 Therefore shalt thou give presents to Moreshethgath: the houses  of Achzib shall be a lie to the kings of Israel.    
1:15 Yet will I bring an heir unto thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah: he  shall come unto Adullam the glory of Israel.    
1:16 Make thee bald, and poll thee for thy delicate children; enlarge  thy baldness as the eagle; for they are gone into captivity from thee.    
2:1 Woe to them that devise iniquity, and work evil upon their beds!  when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is in the  power of their hand.    
2:2 And they covet fields, and take them by violence; and houses, and  take them away: so they oppress a man and his house, even a man and  his heritage.    
2:3 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, against this family do I  devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks; neither  shall ye go haughtily: for this time is evil.    
2:4 In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and lament  with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly spoiled: he hath  changed the portion of my people: how hath he removed it from me!  turning away he hath divided our fields.    
2:5 Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast a cord by lot in  the congregation of the LORD.    
2:6 Prophesy ye not, say they to them that prophesy: they shall not  prophesy to them, that they shall not take shame.    
2:7 O thou that art named the house of Jacob, is the spirit of the  LORD straitened? are these his doings? do not my words do good to him  that walketh uprightly?  
2:8 Even of late my people is risen up as an  enemy: ye pull off the robe with the garment from them that pass by  securely as men averse from war.    
2:9 The women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant  houses; from their children have ye taken away my glory for ever.    
2:10 Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your rest: because it is  polluted, it shall destroy you, even with a sore destruction.    
2:11 If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood do lie, saying, I  will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall even be  the prophet of this people.    
2:12 I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely  gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of  Bozrah, as the flock in the midst of their fold: they shall make great  noise by reason of the multitude of men.    
2:13 The breaker is come up before them: they have broken up, and have  passed through the gate, and are gone out by it: and their king shall  pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.    
3:1 And I said, Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, and ye princes of  the house of Israel; Is it not for you to know judgment?  
3:2 Who hate  the good, and love the evil; who pluck off their skin from off them,  and their flesh from off their bones; 
3:3 Who also eat the flesh of my  people, and flay their skin from off them; and they break their bones,  and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the  caldron.    
3:4 Then shall they cry unto the LORD, but he will not hear them: he  will even hide his face from them at that time, as they have behaved  themselves ill in their doings.    
3:5 Thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that make my people  err, that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and he that putteth  not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him.    
3:6 Therefore night shall be unto you, that ye shall not have a  vision; and it shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine; and  the sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day shall be dark  over them.    
3:7 Then shall the seers be ashamed, and the diviners confounded: yea,  they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer of God.    
3:8 But truly I am full of power by the spirit of the LORD, and of  judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and  to Israel his sin.    
3:9 Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and princes  of the house of Israel, that abhor judgment, and pervert all equity.    
3:10 They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.    
3:11 The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach  for hire, and the prophets thereof divine for money: yet will they  lean upon the LORD, and say, Is not the LORD among us? none evil can  come upon us.    
3:12 Therefore shall Zion for your sake be plowed as a field, and  Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the  high places of the forest.    
4:1 But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of  the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of the  mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall  flow unto it.    
4:2 And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to  the mountain of the LORD, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he  will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law  shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.    
4:3 And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations  afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their  spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword against  nation, neither shall they learn war any more.    
4:4 But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig  tree; and none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of the LORD of  hosts hath spoken it.    
4:5 For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, and we  will walk in the name of the LORD our God for ever and ever.    
4:6 In that day, saith the LORD, will I assemble her that halteth, and  I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have afflicted;  
4:7 And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast  far off a strong nation: and the LORD shall reign over them in mount  Zion from henceforth, even for ever.    
4:8 And thou, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the daughter of  Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion; the kingdom  shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem.    
4:9 Now why dost thou cry out aloud? is there no king in thee? is thy  counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman in travail.    
4:10 Be in pain, and labour to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a  woman in travail: for now shalt thou go forth out of the city, and  thou shalt dwell in the field, and thou shalt go even to Babylon;  there shalt thou be delivered; there the LORD shall redeem thee from  the hand of thine enemies.    
4:11 Now also many nations are gathered against thee, that say, Let  her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion.    
4:12 But they know not the thoughts of the LORD, neither understand  they his counsel: for he shall gather them as the sheaves into the  floor.    
4:13 Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion: for I will make thine horn  iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass: and thou shalt beat in pieces  many people: and I will consecrate their gain unto the LORD, and their  substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.    
5:1 Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops: he hath laid  siege against us: they shall smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon  the cheek.    
5:2 But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the  thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that  is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth have been from of old,  from everlasting.    
5:3 Therefore will he give them up, until the time that she which  travaileth hath brought forth: then the remnant of his brethren shall  return unto the children of Israel.    
5:4 And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD, in the  majesty of the name of the LORD his God; and they shall abide: for now  shall he be great unto the ends of the earth.    
5:5 And this man shall be the peace, when the Assyrian shall come into  our land: and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise  against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.    
5:6 And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the  land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof: thus shall he deliver us from  the Assyrian, when he cometh into our land, and when he treadeth  within our borders.    
5:7 And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a  dew from the LORD, as the showers upon the grass, that tarrieth not  for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men.    
5:8 And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the Gentiles in the midst  of many people as a lion among the beasts of the forest, as a young  lion among the flocks of sheep: who, if he go through, both treadeth  down, and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver.    
5:9 Thine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all  thine enemies shall be cut off.    
5:10 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that I  will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy  thy chariots: 
5:11 And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and  throw down all thy strong holds: 
5:12 And I will cut off witchcrafts  out of thine hand; and thou shalt have no more soothsayers: 
5:13 Thy  graven images also will I cut off, and thy standing images out of the  midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thine hands.    
5:14 And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee: so will  I destroy thy cities.    
5:15 And I will execute vengeance in anger and fury upon the heathen,  such as they have not heard.    
6:1 Hear ye now what the LORD saith; Arise, contend thou before the  mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.    
6:2 Hear ye, O mountains, the LORD's controversy, and ye strong  foundations of the earth: for the LORD hath a controversy with his  people, and he will plead with Israel.    
6:3 O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I  wearied thee? testify against me.    
6:4 For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee  out of the house of servants; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and  Miriam.    
6:5 O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted, and  what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim unto Gilgal;  that ye may know the righteousness of the LORD.    
6:6 Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before the  high God? shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of  a year old?  
6:7 Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, or  with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstborn for my  transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?  
6:8 He  hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require  of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with  thy God?  
6:9 The LORD's voice crieth unto the city, and the man of  wisdom shall see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.    
6:10 Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of the  wicked, and the scant measure that is abominable?  
6:11 Shall I count  them pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful  weights?  
6:12 For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the  inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in  their mouth.    
6:13 Therefore also will I make thee sick in smiting thee, in making  thee desolate because of thy sins.    
6:14 Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy casting down shall  be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not  deliver; and that which thou deliverest will I give up to the sword.    
6:15 Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the  olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and sweet wine, but  shalt not drink wine.    
6:16 For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house  of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I should make thee a  desolation, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing: therefore ye shall  bear the reproach of my people.    
7:1 Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits,  as the grapegleanings of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat: my  soul desired the firstripe fruit.    
7:2 The good man is perished out of the earth: and there is none  upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man  his brother with a net.    
7:3 That they may do evil with both hands earnestly, the prince  asketh, and the judge asketh for a reward; and the great man, he  uttereth his mischievous desire: so they wrap it up.    
7:4 The best of them is as a brier: the most upright is sharper than a  thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen and thy visitation cometh; now  shall be their perplexity.    
7:5 Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep  the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom.    
7:6 For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up  against her mother, the daughter in law against her mother in law; a  man's enemies are the men of his own house.    
7:7 Therefore I will look unto the LORD; I will wait for the God of my  salvation: my God will hear me.    
7:8 Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise;  when I sit in darkness, the LORD shall be a light unto me.    
7:9 I will bear the indignation of the LORD, because I have sinned  against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he  will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold his  righteousness.    
7:10 Then she that is mine enemy shall see it, and shame shall cover  her which said unto me, Where is the LORD thy God? mine eyes shall  behold her: now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.    
7:11 In the day that thy walls are to be built, in that day shall the  decree be far removed.    
7:12 In that day also he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and  from the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to the river,  and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.    
7:13 Notwithstanding the land shall be desolate because of them that  dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.    
7:14 Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thine heritage, which  dwell solitarily in the wood, in the midst of Carmel: let them feed in  Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.    
7:15 According to the days of thy coming out of the land of Egypt will  I shew unto him marvellous things.    
7:16 The nations shall see and be confounded at all their might: they  shall lay their hand upon their mouth, their ears shall be deaf.    
7:17 They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out of  their holes like worms of the earth: they shall be afraid of the LORD  our God, and shall fear because of thee.    
7:18 Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth  by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not  his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy.    
7:19 He will turn again, he will have compassion upon us; he will  subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the  depths of the sea.    
7:20 Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,  which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.
