46/1 Ha-Mim.
46/2 The Revelation of the Book is from Allah the Exalted in Power,Full of Wisdom.
46/3 We created not the heavens and the earth and all between thembut for just ends, and for a Term Appointed:  But those who reject Faithturn away from that whereof they are warned.
46/4 Say: "Do ye see what it is ye invoke besides Allah? Show me whatit is they have created on earth, or have they a share in the heavens bringme a book (revealed) before this, or any remnant of knowledge (ye mayhave), if ye are telling the truth!
46/5 And who is more astray than one who invokes besides Allah, suchas will not answer him to the Day of Judgment, and who (in fact) areunconscious of their call (to them)?
46/6 And when mankind are gathered together (at the Resurrection),they will be hostile to them and reject their worship (altogether)!
46/7 When Our Clear Signs are rehearsed to them, the Unbelieverssay, of the Truth when it comes to them: "This is evident sorcery!"
46/8 Or do they say, "He has forged it"? Say: "Had I forged it,then can ye obtain no single (blessing) for me from Allah. He knows best ofthat whereof ye talk (so glibly)! Enough is He for a witness between me andyou! And he is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
46/9 Say: "I am no bringer of new-fangled doctrine among themessengers, nor do I know what will be done with me or with you. I follow butthat which is revealed to me by inspiration; I am but a Warner open andclear."
46/10 Say: "See ye? If (this teaching) be from Allah, and ye rejectit, and a witness from among the Children of Israel testifies to itssimilarity (with earlier scripture), and has believed while ye arearrogant, (how unjust ye are!) truly, Allah guides not a people unjust."
46/11 The Unbelievers say of those who believe: "If (this Message)were a good thing, (such men) would not have gone to it first, before us!"And seeing that they guide not themselves thereby, they will say, "this isan (old,) falsehood!"
46/12 And before this, was the Book of Moses as a guide and a mercy:And this Book confirms (it) in the Arabic tongue;  to admonish the unjust,and as Glad Tidings to those who do right.
46/13 Verily those who say, "Our Lord is Allah," and remain firm (onthat Path),- on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
46/14 Such shall be Companions of the Gardens, dwelling therein (foraye): a recompense for their (good) deeds.
46/15 We have enjoined on man kindness to his parents: In pain didhis mother bear him, and in pain did she give him birth. The carrying ofthe (child) to his weaning is (a period of) thirty months. At length, whenhe reaches the age of full strength and attains forty years, he says, "O myLord! Grant me that I may be grateful for Thy favour which Thou hasbestowed upon me, and upon both my parents, and that I may workrighteousness such as Thou mayest approve; and be gracious to me in myissue. Truly have I turned to Thee and truly do I bow (to Thee) in Islam."
46/16 Such are they from whom We shall accept the best of theirdeeds and pass by their ill deeds: (They shall be) among the Companions ofthe Garden: a promise! of truth, which was made to them (in this life).
46/17 But (there is one) who says to his parents, "Fie on you! Do yehold out the promise to me that I shall be raised up, even thoughgenerations have passed before me (without rising again)?" And they twoseek Allah's aid, (and rebuke the son): "Woe to thee! Have faith! for thepromise of Allah is true." But he says, "This is nothing but tales of theancients!"
46/18 Such are they against whom is proved the sentence among theprevious generations of Jinns and men, that have passed away; for they willbe (utterly) lost.
46/19 And to all are (assigned) degrees according to the deeds whichthey (have done), and in order that (Allah) may recompense their deeds, andno injustice be done to them.
46/20 And on the Day that the Unbelievers will be placed before theFire, (It will be said to them): "Ye received your good things in the lifeof the world, and ye took your pleasure out of them: but today shall ye berecompensed with a Penalty of humiliation: for that ye were arrogant onearth without just cause, and that ye (ever) transgressed."
46/21 Mention (Hud) one of 'Ad's (own) brethren: Behold, he warnedhis people about the winding Sand-tracts: but there have been warnersbefore him and after him: "Worship ye none other than Allah: Truly I fear foryou the Penalty of a Mighty Day."
46/22 They said: "Hast thou come in order to turn us aside from ourgods? Then bring upon us the (calamity)  with which thou dost threaten us,if thou art telling the truth?"
46/23 He said: "The Knowledge (of when it will come) is only withAllah: I proclaim to you the mission on which I have been sent: But I seethat ye are a people in ignorance!"..
46/24 Then, when they saw the (Penalty in the shape of) a cloudtraversing the sky, coming to meet their valleys, they said, "This cloudwill give us rain!" "Nay, it is the (Calamity) ye were asking to behastened!- A wind wherein is a Grievous Penalty!
46/25 "Everything will it destroy by the command of its Lord!" Thenby the morning they - nothing was to be seen but (the ruins of) theirhouses! thus do We recompense those given to sin!
46/26 And We had firmly established them in a (prosperity and) powerwhich We have not given to you (ye Quraish!) and We had endowed them with(faculties of) hearing, seeing, heart and intellect: but of no profit tothem were their (faculties of) hearing, sight, and heart and intellect,when they went on rejecting the Signs of Allah; and they were (completely)encircled by that which they used to mock at!
46/27 We destroyed aforetime populations round about you; and Wehave shown the Signs in various ways, that they may turn (to Us).
46/28 Why then was no help forthcoming to them from those whom theyworshipped as gods, besides Allah, as a means of access (to Allah)? Nay, theyleft them in the lurch: but that was their falsehood and their invention.
46/29 Behold, We turned towards thee a company of Jinns (quietly)listening to the Qur'an: when they stood in the presence thereof, theysaid, "Listen in silence!" When the (reading) was finished, they returnedto their people, to warn (them of their sins).
46/30 They said, "O our people! We have heard a Book revealed afterMoses, confirming what came before it: it guides (men) to the Truth and toa Straight Path.
46/31 "O our people, hearken to the one who invites (you) to Allah,and believe in him: He will forgive you your faults, and deliver you from aPenalty Grievous.
46/32 "If any does not hearken to the one who invites (us) to Allah,he cannot frustrate (Allah's Plan) on earth, and no protectors can he havebesides Allah: such men (wander) in manifest error."
46/33 See they not that Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth,and never wearied with their creation, is able to give life to the dead?Yea, verily He has power over all things.
46/34 And on the Day that the Unbelievers will be placed before theFire, (they will be asked,) "Is this not the Truth?" they will say, "Yea,by our Lord!" (One will say:) "Then taste ye the Penalty, for that ye werewont to deny (Truth)!"
46/35 Therefore patiently persevere, as did (all) messengers ofinflexible purpose; and be in no haste about the (Unbelievers). On the Daythat they see the (Punishment)  promised them, (it will be) as if they hadnot tarried more than an hour in a single day. (Thine but) to proclaim theMessage: but shall any be destroyed except those who transgress?
