3/1 A. L. M.
3/2 Allah! There is no god but He,-the Living, the Self-Subsisting,Eternal.
3/3 It is He Who sent down to thee (step by step), in truth, theBook, confirming what went before it; and He sent down the Law (of Moses)and the Gospel (of Jesus) before this, as a guide to mankind, and He sentdown the criterion (of judgment between right and wrong).
3/4 Then those who reject Faith in the Signs of Allah will sufferthe severest penalty, and Allah is Exalted in Might, Lord of Retribution.
3/5 From Allah, verily nothing is hidden on earth or in theheavens.
3/6 He it is Who shapes you in the wombs as He pleases. There isno god but He, the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
3/7 He it is Who has sent down to thee the Book: In it are versesbasic or fundamental (of established meaning); they are the foundation ofthe Book: others are allegorical. But those in whose hearts is perversityfollow the part thereof that is allegorical, seeking discord, and searchingfor its hidden meanings, but no one knows its hidden meanings except Allah.And those who are firmly grounded in knowledge say: "We believe in theBook; the whole of it is from our Lord:" and none will grasp the Messageexcept men of understanding.
3/8 "Our Lord!" (they say), "Let not our hearts deviate now afterThou hast guided us, but grant us mercy from Thine own Presence; for Thouart the Grantor of bounties without measure.
3/9 "Our Lord! Thou art He that will gather mankind Togetheragainst a day about which there is no doubt; for Allah never fails in Hispromise."
3/10 Those who reject Faith,- neither their possessions nor their(numerous) progeny will avail them aught against Allah: They are themselvesbut fuel for the Fire.
3/11 (Their plight will be) no better than that of the people ofPharaoh, and their predecessors: They denied our Signs, and Allah called themto account for their sins. For Allah is strict in punishment.
3/12 Say to those who reject Faith: "Soon will ye be vanquished andgathered together to Hell,-an evil bed indeed (to lie on)!
3/13 "There has already been for you a Sign in the two armies thatmet (in combat): One was fighting in the cause of Allah, the other resistingAllah; these saw with their own eyes Twice their number. But Allah doth supportwith His aid whom He pleaseth. In this is a warning for such as have eyesto see."
3/14 Fair in the eyes of men is the love of things they covet:Women and sons; Heaped-up hoards of gold and silver; horses branded (forblood and excellence); and (wealth of) cattle and well-tilled land. Suchare the possessions of this world's life; but in nearness to Allah is thebest of the goals (To return to).
3/15 Say: Shall I give you glad tidings of things Far better thanthose? For the righteous are Gardens in nearness to their Lord, with riversflowing beneath; therein is their eternal home; with companions pure (andholy); and the good pleasure of Allah. For in Allah's sight are (all) Hisservants,-
3/16 (Namely), those who say: "Our Lord! we have indeed believed:forgive us, then, our sins, and save us from the agony of the Fire;"-
3/17 Those who show patience, Firmness and self-control; who aretrue (in word and deed); who worship devoutly; who spend (in the way ofAllah); and who pray for forgiveness in the early hours of the morning.
3/18 There is no god but He: That is the witness of Allah, Hisangels, and those endued with knowledge, standing firm on justice. There isno god but He, the Exalted in Power, the Wise.
3/19 The Religion before Allah is Islam (submission to His Will): Nordid the People of the Book dissent therefrom except through envy of eachother, after knowledge had come to them. But if any deny the Signs of Allah,Allah is swift in calling to account.
3/20 So if they dispute with thee, say: "I have submitted My wholeself to Allah and so have those who follow me." And say to the People of theBook and to those who are unlearned: "Do ye (also) submit yourselves?" Ifthey do, they are in right guidance, but if they turn back, Thy duty is toconvey the Message; and in Allah's sight are (all) His servants.
3/21 As to those who deny the Signs of Allah and in defiance ofright, slay the prophets, and slay those who teach just dealing withmankind, announce to them a grievous penalty.
3/22 They are those whose works will bear no fruit in this worldand in the Hereafter nor will they have anyone to help.
3/23 Hast thou not turned Thy vision to those who have been given aportion of the Book? They are invited to the Book of Allah, to settle theirdispute, but a party of them Turn back and decline (The arbitration).
3/24 This because they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for afew numbered days": For their forgeries deceive them as to their ownreligion.
3/25 But how (will they fare) when we gather them together againsta day about which there is no doubt, and each soul will be paid out justwhat it has earned, without (favour or) injustice?
3/26 Say: "O Allah! Lord of Power (And Rule), Thou givest power towhom Thou pleasest, and Thou strippest off power from whom Thou pleasest:Thou enduest with honour whom Thou pleasest, and Thou bringest low whomThou pleasest: In Thy hand is all good. Verily, over all things Thou hastpower.
3/27 "Thou causest the night to gain on the day, and thou causestthe day to gain on the night; Thou bringest the Living out of the dead, andThou bringest the dead out of the Living; and Thou givest sustenance towhom Thou pleasest, without measure."
3/28 Let not the believers Take for friends or helpers Unbelieversrather than believers: if any do that, in nothing will there be help fromAllah: except by way of precaution, that ye may Guard yourselves from them.But Allah cautions you (To remember) Himself; for the final goal is to Allah.
3/29 Say: "Whether ye hide what is in your hearts or reveal it, Allahknows it all: He knows what is in the heavens, and what is on earth. AndAllah has power over all things.
3/30 "On the Day when every soul will be confronted with all thegood it has done, and all the evil it has done, it will wish there were agreat distance between it and its evil. But Allah cautions you (To remember)Himself. And Allah is full of kindness to those that serve Him."
3/31 Say: "If ye do love Allah, Follow me: Allah will love you andforgive you your sins: For Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
3/32 Say: "Obey Allah and His Messenger": But if they turn back, Allahloveth not those who reject Faith.
3/33 Allah did choose Adam and Noah, the family of Abraham, and thefamily of 'Imran above all people,-
3/34 Offspring, one of the other: And Allah heareth and knoweth allthings.
3/35 Behold! a woman of 'Imran said: "O my Lord! I do dedicate untoThee what is in my womb for Thy special service: So accept this of me: ForThou hearest and knowest all things."
3/36 When she was delivered, she said: "O my Lord! Behold! I amdelivered of a female child!"- and Allah knew best what she brought forth-"And no wise is the male Like the female. I have named her Mary, and Icommend her and her offspring to Thy protection from the Evil One, theRejected."
3/37 Right graciously did her Lord accept her: He made her grow inpurity and beauty: To the care of Zakariya was she assigned. Every timethat he entered (Her) chamber to see her, He found her supplied withsustenance. He said: "O Mary! Whence (comes) this to you?" She said: "FromAllah: for Allah Provides sustenance to whom He pleases without measure."
3/38 There did Zakariya pray to his Lord, saying: "O my Lord! Grantunto me from Thee a progeny that is pure: for Thou art He that hearethprayer!
3/39 While he was standing in prayer in the chamber, the angelscalled unto him: "Allah doth give thee glad tidings of Yahya, witnessing thetruth of a Word from Allah, and (be besides) noble, chaste, and a prophet,-of the (goodly) company of the righteous."
3/40 He said: "O my Lord! How shall I have son, seeing I am veryold, and my wife is barren?" "Thus," was the answer, "Doth Allah accomplishwhat He willeth."
3/41 He said: "O my Lord! Give me a Sign!" "Thy Sign," was theanswer, "Shall be that thou shalt speak to no man for three days but withsignals. Then celebrate the praises of thy Lord again and again, andglorify Him in the evening and in the morning."
3/42 Behold! the angels said: "O Mary! Allah hath chosen thee andpurified thee- chosen thee above the women of all nations.
3/43 "O Mary! worship Thy Lord devoutly: Prostrate thyself, and bowdown (in prayer) with those who bow down."
3/44 This is part of the tidings of the things unseen, which Wereveal unto thee (O Messenger!) by inspiration: Thou wast not with them whenthey cast lots with arrows, as to which of them should be charged with thecare of Mary: Nor wast thou with them when they disputed (the point).
3/45 Behold! the angels said: "O Mary! Allah giveth thee glad tidingsof a Word from Him: his name will be Christ Jesus, the son of Mary, held inhonour in this world and the Hereafter and of (the company of) thosenearest to Allah;
3/46 "He shall speak to the people in childhood and in maturity.And he shall be (of the company) of the righteous."
3/47 She said: "O my Lord! How shall I have a son when no man hathtouched me?" He said: "Even so: Allah createth what He willeth: When He hathdecreed a plan, He but saith to it, 'Be,' and it is!
3/48 "And Allah will teach him the Book and Wisdom, the Law and theGospel,
3/49 "And (appoint him) a messenger to the Children of Israel, (withthis message): "'I have come to you, with a Sign from your Lord, in that Imake for you out of clay, as it were, the figure of a bird, and breatheinto it, and it becomes a bird by Allah's leave: And I heal those born blind,and the lepers, and I quicken the dead, by Allah's leave; and I declare toyou what ye eat, and what ye store in your houses. Surely therein is a Signfor you if ye did believe;
3/50 "'(I have come to you), to attest the Law which was before me.And to make lawful to you part of what was (Before) forbidden to you; Ihave come to you with a Sign from your Lord. So fear Allah, and obey me.
3/51 "'It is Allah Who is my Lord and your Lord; then worship Him.This is a Way that is straight.'"
3/52 When Jesus found Unbelief on their part He said: "Who will beMy helpers to (the work of) Allah?" Said the disciples: "We are Allah'shelpers: We believe in Allah, and do thou bear witness that we are Muslims.
3/53 "Our Lord! we believe in what Thou hast revealed, and wefollow the Messenger; then write us down among those who bear witness."
3/54 And (the unbelievers) plotted and planned, and Allah tooplanned, and the best of planners is Allah.
3/55 Behold! Allah said: "O Jesus! I will take thee and raise thee toMyself and clear thee (of the falsehoods) of those who blaspheme; I willmake those who follow thee superior to those who reject faith, to the Dayof Resurrection: Then shall ye all return unto me, and I will judge betweenyou of the matters wherein ye dispute.
3/56 "As to those who reject faith, I will punish them withterrible agony in this world and in the Hereafter, nor will they haveanyone to help."
3/57 "As to those who believe and work righteousness, Allah will paythem (in full) their reward; but Allah loveth not those who do wrong."
3/58 "This is what we rehearse unto thee of the Signs and theMessage of Wisdom."
3/59 The similitude of Jesus before Allah is as that of Adam; Hecreated him from dust, then said to him: "Be". And he was.
3/60 The Truth (comes) from Allah alone; so be not of those whodoubt.
3/61 If any one disputes in this matter with thee, now after (full)knowledge Hath come to thee, say: "Come! let us gather together,- our sonsand your sons, our women and your women, ourselves and yourselves: Then letus earnestly pray, and invoke the curse of Allah on those who lie!"
3/62 This is the true account: There is no god except Allah; andAllah-He is indeed the Exalted in Power, the Wise.
3/63 But if they turn back, Allah hath full knowledge of those who domischief.
3/64 Say: "O People of the Book! come to common terms as between usand you: That we worship none but Allah; that we associate no partners withhim; that we erect not, from among ourselves, Lords and patrons other thanAllah." If then they turn back, say ye: "Bear witness that we (at least) areMuslims (bowing to Allah's Will).
3/65 Ye People of the Book! Why dispute ye about Abraham, when theLaw and the Gospel Were not revealed Till after him? Have ye nounderstanding?
3/66 Ah! Ye are those who fell to disputing (Even) in matters ofwhich ye had some knowledge! but why dispute ye in matters of which ye haveno knowledge? It is Allah Who knows, and ye who know not!
3/67 Abraham was not a Jew nor yet a Christian; but he was true inFaith, and bowed his will to Allah's (Which is Islam), and he joined not godswith Allah.
3/68 Without doubt, among men, the nearest of kin to Abraham, arethose who follow him, as are also this Prophet and those who believe: AndAllah is the Protector of those who have faith.
3/69 It is the wish of a section of the People of the Book to leadyou astray. But they shall lead astray (Not you), but themselves, and theydo not perceive!
3/70 Ye People of the Book! Why reject ye the Signs of Allah, ofwhich ye are (Yourselves) witnesses?
3/71 Ye People of the Book! Why do ye clothe Truth with falsehood,and conceal the Truth, while ye have knowledge?
3/72 A section of the People of the Book say: "Believe in themorning what is revealed to the believers, but reject it at the end of theday; perchance they may (themselves) Turn back;
3/73 "And believe no one unless he follows your religion." Say:"True guidance is the Guidance of Allah: (Fear ye) Lest a revelation be sentto someone (else) Like unto that which was sent unto you? or that those(Receiving such revelation) should engage you in argument before yourLord?" Say: "All bounties are in the hand of Allah: He granteth them to whomHe pleaseth: And Allah careth for all, and He knoweth all things."
3/74 For His Mercy He specially chooseth whom He pleaseth; for Allahis the Lord of bounties unbounded.
3/75 Among the People of the Book are some who, if entrusted with ahoard of gold, will (readily) pay it back; others, who, if entrusted with asingle silver coin, will not repay it unless thou constantly stoodestdemanding, because, they say, "there is no call on us (to keep faith) withthese ignorant (Pagans)." but they tell a lie against Allah, and (well) theyknow it.
3/76 Nay.- Those that keep their plighted faith and actaright,-verily Allah loves those who act aright.
3/77 As for those who sell the faith they owe to Allah and their ownplighted word for a small price, they shall have no portion in theHereafter: Nor will Allah (Deign to) speak to them or look at them on the Dayof Judgment, nor will He cleans them (of sin): They shall have a grievouspenalty.
3/78 There is among them a section who distort the Book with theirtongues: (As they read) you would think it is a part of the Book, but it isno part of the Book; and they say, "That is from Allah," but it is not fromAllah: It is they who tell a lie against Allah, and (well) they know it!
3/79 It is not (possible) that a man, to whom is given the Book,and Wisdom, and the prophetic office, should say to people: "Be ye myworshippers rather than Allah's": on the contrary (He would say) "Be yeworshippers of Him Who is truly the Cherisher of all: For ye have taughtthe Book and ye have studied it earnestly."
3/80 Nor would he instruct you to take angels and prophets forLords and patrons. What! would he bid you to unbelief after ye have bowedyour will (To Allah in Islam)?
3/81 Behold! Allah took the covenant of the prophets, saying: "I giveyou a Book and Wisdom; then comes to you a messenger, confirming what iswith you; do ye believe in him and render him help." Allah said: "Do yeagree, and take this my Covenant as binding on you?" They said: "We agree."He said: "Then bear witness, and I am with you among the witnesses."
3/82 If any turn back after this, they are pervertedtransgressors.
3/83 Do they seek for other than the Religion of Allah?-while allcreatures in the heavens and on earth have, willing or unwilling, bowed toHis Will (Accepted Islam), and to Him shall they all be brought back.
3/84 Say: "We believe in Allah, and in what has been revealed to usand what was revealed to Abraham, Isma'il, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes,and in (the Books) given to Moses, Jesus, and the prophets, from theirLord: We make no distinction between one and another among them, and to Allahdo we bow our will (in Islam)."
3/85 If anyone desires a religion other than Islam (submission toAllah), never will it be accepted of him; and in the Hereafter He will be inthe ranks of those who have lost (All spiritual good).
3/86 How shall Allah Guide those who reject Faith after they acceptedit and bore witness that the Messenger was true and that Clear Signs had comeunto them? but Allah guides not a people unjust.
3/87 Of such the reward is that on them (rests) the curse of Allah,of His angels, and of all mankind;-
3/88 In that will they dwell; nor will their penalty be lightened,nor respite be (their lot);-
3/89 Except for those that repent (Even) after that, and makeamends; for verily Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
3/90 But those who reject Faith after they accepted it, and then goon adding to their defiance of Faith,- never will their repentance beaccepted; for they are those who have (of set purpose) gone astray.
3/91 As to those who reject Faith, and die rejecting,- never wouldbe accepted from any such as much gold as the earth contains, though theyshould offer it for ransom. For such is (in store) a penalty grievous, andthey will find no helpers.
3/92 By no means shall ye attain righteousness unless ye give(freely) of that which ye love; and whatever ye give, of a truth Allahknoweth it well.
3/93 All food was lawful to the Children of Israel, except whatIsrael Made unlawful for itself, before the Law (of Moses) was revealed.Say: "Bring ye the Law and study it, if ye be men of truth."
3/94 If any, after this, invent a lie and attribute it to Allah, theyare indeed unjust wrong-doers.
3/95 Say: "Allah speaketh the Truth: follow the religion of Abraham,the sane in faith; he was not of the Pagans."
3/96 The first House (of worship) appointed for men was that atBakka: Full of blessing and of guidance for all kinds of beings:
3/97 In it are Signs Manifest; (for example), the Station ofAbraham; whoever enters it attains security; Pilgrimage thereto is a dutymen owe to Allah,- those who can afford the journey; but if any deny faith,Allah stands not in need of any of His creatures.
3/98 Say: "O People of the Book! Why reject ye the Signs of Allah,when Allah is Himself witness to all ye do?"
3/99 Say: "O ye People of the Book! Why obstruct ye those whobelieve, from the path of Allah, Seeking to make it crooked, while ye wereyourselves witnesses (to Allah's Covenant)? but Allah is not unmindful of allthat ye do."
3/100 O ye who believe! If ye listen to a faction among the Peopleof the Book, they would (indeed) render you apostates after ye havebelieved!
3/101 And how would ye deny Faith while unto you are rehearsed theSigns of Allah, and among you Lives the Messenger? Whoever holds firmly to Allahwill be shown a way that is straight.
3/102 O ye who believe! Fear Allah as He should be feared, and die notexcept in a state of Islam.
3/103 And hold fast, all together, by the rope which Allah (stretchesout for you), and be not divided among yourselves; and remember withgratitude Allah's favour on you; for ye were enemies and He joined yourhearts in love, so that by His Grace, ye became brethren; and ye were onthe brink of the pit of Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus doth Allah makeHis Signs clear to you: That ye may be guided.
3/104 Let there arise out of you a band of people inviting to allthat is good, enjoining what is right, and forbidding what is wrong: Theyare the ones to attain felicity.
3/105 Be not like those who are divided amongst themselves and fallinto disputations after receiving Clear Signs: For them is a dreadfulpenalty,-
3/106 On the Day when some faces will be (lit up with) white, andsome faces will be (in the gloom of) black: To those whose faces will beblack, (will be said): "Did ye reject Faith after accepting it? Taste thenthe penalty for rejecting Faith."
3/107 But those whose faces will be (lit with) white,- they will bein (the light of) Allah's mercy: therein to dwell (for ever).
3/108 These are the Signs of Allah: We rehearse them to thee in Truth:And Allah means no injustice to any of His creatures.
3/109 To Allah belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: To Himdo all questions go back (for decision).
3/110 Ye are the best of peoples, evolved for mankind, enjoiningwhat is right, forbidding what is wrong, and believing in Allah. If only thePeople of the Book had faith, it were best for them: among them are somewho have faith, but most of them are perverted transgressors.
3/111 They will do you no harm, barring a trifling annoyance; ifthey come out to fight you, they will show you their backs, and no helpshall they get.
3/112 Shame is pitched over them (Like a tent) wherever they arefound, except when under a covenant (of protection) from Allah and from men;they draw on themselves wrath from Allah, and pitched over them is (the tentof) destitution. This because they rejected the Signs of Allah, and slew theprophets in defiance of right; this because they rebelled and transgressedbeyond bounds.
3/113 Not all of them are alike: Of the People of the Book are aportion that stand (For the right): They rehearse the Signs of Allah allnight long, and they prostrate themselves in adoration.
3/114 They believe in Allah and the Last Day; they enjoin what isright, and forbid what is wrong; and they hasten (in emulation) in (all)good works: They are in the ranks of the righteous.
3/115 Of the good that they do, nothing will be rejected of them;for Allah knoweth well those that do right.
3/116 Those who reject Faith,- neither their possessions nor their(numerous) progeny will avail them aught against Allah: They will becompanions of the Fire,-dwelling therein (for ever).
3/117 What they spend in the life of this (material) world May belikened to a wind which brings a nipping frost: It strikes and destroys theharvest of men who have wronged their own souls: it is not Allah that hathwronged them, but they wrong themselves.
3/118 O ye who believe! Take not into your intimacy those outsideyour ranks: They will not fail to corrupt you. They only desire your ruin:Rank hatred has already appeared from their mouths: What their heartsconceal is far worse. We have made plain to you the Signs, if ye havewisdom.
3/119 Ah! ye are those who love them, but they love you not,- thoughye believe in the whole of the Book. When they meet you, they say, "Webelieve": But when they are alone, they bite off the very tips of theirfingers at you in their rage. Say: "Perish in you rage; Allah knoweth wellall the secrets of the heart."
3/120 If aught that is good befalls you, it grieves them; but ifsome misfortune overtakes you, they rejoice at it. But if ye are constantand do right, not the least harm will their cunning do to you; for AllahCompasseth round about all that they do.
3/121 Remember that morning Thou didst leave Thy household (early)to post the faithful at their stations for battle: And Allah heareth andknoweth all things:
3/122 Remember two of your parties Meditated cowardice; but Allah wastheir protector, and in Allah should the faithful (Ever) put their trust.
3/123 Allah had helped you at Badr, when ye were a contemptible littleforce; then fear Allah; thus May ye show your gratitude.
3/124 Remember thou saidst to the Faithful: "Is it not enough foryou that Allah should help you with three thousand angels (Specially) sentdown?
3/125 "Yea, - if ye remain firm, and act aright, even if the enemyshould rush here on you in hot haste, your Lord would help you with fivethousand angels Making a terrific onslaught.
3/126 Allah made it but a message of hope for you, and an assurance toyour hearts: (in any case) there is no help except from Allah. The Exalted,the Wise:
3/127 That He might cut off a fringe of the Unbelievers or exposethem to infamy, and they should then be turned back, frustrated of theirpurpose.
3/128 Not for thee, (but for Allah), is the decision: Whether He turnin mercy to them, or punish them; for they are indeed wrong-doers.
3/129 To Allah belongeth all that is in the heavens and on earth. Heforgiveth whom He pleaseth and punisheth whom He pleaseth; but Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
3/130 O ye who believe! Devour not usury, doubled and multiplied;but fear Allah; that ye may (really) prosper.
3/131 Fear the Fire, which is repaired for those who reject Faith:
3/132 And obey Allah and the Messenger; that ye may obtain mercy.
3/133 Be quick in the race for forgiveness from your Lord, and for aGarden whose width is that (of the whole) of the heavens and of the earth,prepared for the righteous,-
3/134 Those who spend (freely), whether in prosperity, or inadversity; who restrain anger, and pardon (all) men;- for Allah loves thosewho do good;-
3/135 And those who, having done something to be ashamed of, orwronged their own souls, earnestly bring Allah to mind, and ask forforgiveness for their sins,- and who can forgive sins except Allah?- and arenever obstinate in persisting knowingly in (the wrong) they have done.
3/136 For such the reward is forgiveness from their Lord, andGardens with rivers flowing underneath,- an eternal dwelling: How excellenta recompense for those who work (and strive)!
3/137 Many were the Ways of Life that have passed away before you:travel through the earth, and see what was the end of those who rejectedTruth.
3/138 Here is a plain statement to men, a guidance and instructionto those who fear Allah!
3/139 So lose not heart, nor fall into despair: For ye must gainmastery if ye are true in Faith.
3/140 If a wound hath touched you, be sure a similar wound hathtouched the others. Such days (of varying fortunes) We give to men and menby turns: that Allah may know those that believe, and that He may take toHimself from your ranks Martyr-witnesses (to Truth). And Allah loveth notthose that do wrong.
3/141 Allah's object also is to purge those that are true in Faith andto deprive of blessing Those that resist Faith.
3/142 Did ye think that ye would enter Heaven without Allah testingthose of you who fought hard (In His Cause) and remained steadfast?
3/143 Ye did indeed wish for death before ye met him: Now ye haveseen him with your own eyes, (And ye flinch!)
3/144 Muhammad is no more than a messenger: many Were the messengerthat passed away before him. If he died or were slain, will ye then Turnback on your heels? If any did turn back on his heels, not the least harmwill he do to Allah; but Allah (on the other hand) will swiftly reward thosewho (serve Him) with gratitude.
3/145 Nor can a soul die except by Allah's leave, the term being fixedas by writing. If any do desire a reward in this life, We shall give it tohim; and if any do desire a reward in the Hereafter, We shall give it tohim. And swiftly shall We reward those that (serve us with) gratitude.
3/146 How many of the prophets fought (in Allah's way), and with them(fought) Large bands of godly men? but they never lost heart if they metwith disaster in Allah's way, nor did they weaken (in will) nor give in. AndAllah Loves those who are firm and steadfast.
3/147 All that they said was: "Our Lord! Forgive us our sins andanything We may have done that transgressed our duty: Establish our feetfirmly, and help us against those that resist Faith."
3/148 And Allah gave them a reward in this world, and the excellentreward of the Hereafter. For Allah Loveth those who do good.
3/149 O ye who believe! If ye obey the Unbelievers, they will driveyou back on your heels, and ye will turn back (from Faith) to your ownloss.
3/150 Nay, Allah is your protector, and He is the best of helpers.
3/151 Soon shall We cast terror into the hearts of the Unbelievers,for that they joined companions with Allah, for which He had sent noauthority: their abode will be the Fire: And evil is the home of thewrong-doers!
3/152 Allah did indeed fulfil His promise to you when ye with Hispermission Were about to annihilate your enemy,-until ye flinched and fellto disputing about the order, and disobeyed it after He brought you insight (of the booty) which ye covet. Among you are some that hanker afterthis world and some that desire the Hereafter. Then did He divert you fromyour foes in order to test you but He forgave you: For Allah is full of graceto those who believe.
3/153 Behold! ye were climbing up the high ground, without evencasting a side glance at any one, and the Messenger in your rear was callingyou back. There did Allah give you one distress after another by way ofrequital, to teach you not to grieve for (the booty) that had escaped youand for (the ill) that had befallen you. For Allah is well aware of all thatye do.
3/154 After (the excitement) of the distress, He sent down calm on aband of you overcome with slumber, while another band was stirred toanxiety by their own feelings, Moved by wrong suspicions of Allah-suspicionsdue to ignorance. They said: "What affair is this of ours?" Say thou:"Indeed, this affair is wholly Allah's." They hide in their minds what theydare not reveal to thee. They say (to themselves): "If we had had anythingto do with this affair, We should not have been in the slaughter here."Say: "Even if you had remained in your homes, those for whom death wasdecreed would certainly have gone forth to the place of their death"; but(all this was) that Allah might test what is in your breasts and purge whatis in your hearts. For Allah knoweth well the secrets of your hearts.
3/155 Those of you who turned back on the day the two hosts Met,-itwas Satan who caused them to fail, because of some (evil) they had done.But Allah Has blotted out (their fault): For Allah is Oft-Forgiving, MostForbearing.
3/156 O ye who believe! Be not like the Unbelievers, who say oftheir brethren, when they are travelling through the Earth or engaged infighting: "If they had stayed with us, they would not have died, or beenslain." This that Allah may make it a cause of sighs and regrets in theirhearts. It is Allah that gives Life and Death, and Allah sees well all that yedo.
3/157 And if ye are slain, or die, in the way of Allah, forgivenessand mercy from Allah are far better than all they could amass.
3/158 And if ye die, or are slain, Lo! it is unto Allah that ye arebrought together.
3/159 It is part of the Mercy of Allah that thou dost deal gently withthem Wert thou severe or harsh-hearted, they would have broken away fromabout thee: so pass over (Their faults), and ask for (Allah's) forgivenessfor them; and consult them in affairs (of moment). Then, when thou hastTaken a decision put thy trust in Allah. For Allah loves those who put theirtrust (in Him).
3/160 If Allah helps you, none can overcome you: If He forsakes you,who is there, after that, that can help you? in Allah, then, Let believersput their trust.
3/161 No prophet could (ever) be false to his trust. If any personis so false, He shall, on the Day of Judgment, restore what hemisappropriated; then shall every soul receive its due,- whatever itearned,- and none shall be dealt with unjustly.
3/162 Is the man who follows the good pleasure of Allah Like the manwho draws on himself the wrath of Allah, and whose abode is in Hell?- Awoeful refuge!
3/163 They are in varying gardens in the sight of Allah, and Allah seeswell all that they do.
3/164 Allah did confer a great favour on the believers when He sentamong them a messenger from among themselves, rehearsing unto them the Signsof Allah, sanctifying them, and instructing them in Scripture and Wisdom,while, before that, they had been in manifest error.
3/165 What! When a single disaster smites you, although ye smote(your enemies) with one twice as great, do ye say?- "Whence is this?" Say(to them): "It is from yourselves: For Allah hath power over all things."
3/166 What ye suffered on the day the two armies Met, was with theleave of Allah, in order that He might test the believers,-
3/167 And the Hypocrites also. These were told: "Come, fight in theway of Allah, or (at least) drive (The foe from your city)." They said: "Hadwe known how to fight, we should certainly have followed you." They werethat day nearer to Unbelief than to Faith, saying with their lips what wasnot in their hearts but Allah hath full knowledge of all they conceal.
3/168 (They are) the ones that say, (of their brethren slain), whilethey themselves sit (at ease): "If only they had listened to us they wouldnot have been slain." Say: "Avert death from your own selves, if ye speakthe truth."
3/169 Think not of those who are slain in Allah's way as dead. Nay,they live, finding their sustenance in the presence of their Lord;
3/170 They rejoice in the bounty provided by Allah: And with regard tothose left behind, who have not yet joined them (in their bliss), the(Martyrs) glory in the fact that on them is no fear, nor have they (causeto) grieve.
3/171 They glory in the Grace and the bounty from Allah, and in thefact that Allah suffereth not the reward of the Faithful to be lost (in theleast).
3/172 Of those who answered the call of Allah and the Messenger, evenafter being wounded, those who do right and refrain from wrong have a greatreward;-
3/173 Men said to them: "A great army is gathering against you": Andfrightened them: But it (only) increased their Faith: They said: "For usAllah sufficeth, and He is the best disposer of affairs."
3/174 And they returned with Grace and bounty from Allah: no harm evertouched them: For they followed the good pleasure of Allah: And Allah is theLord of bounties unbounded.
3/175 It is only the Evil One that suggests to you the fear of hisvotaries: Be ye not afraid of them, but fear Me, if ye have Faith.
3/176 Let not those grieve thee who rush headlong into Unbelief: Notthe least harm will they do to Allah: Allah's plan is that He will give them noportion in the Hereafter, but a severe punishment.
3/177 Those who purchase Unbelief at the price of faith,- not theleast harm will they do to Allah, but they will have a grievous punishment.
3/178 Let not the Unbelievers think that our respite to them is goodfor themselves: We grant them respite that they may grow in their iniquity:But they will have a shameful punishment.
3/179 Allah will not leave the believers in the state in which ye arenow, until He separates what is evil from what is good nor will He discloseto you the secrets of the Unseen. But He chooses of His Messengers (For thepurpose) whom He pleases. So believe in Allah. And His messengers: And if yebelieve and do right, ye have a reward without measure.
3/180 And let not those who covetously withhold of the gifts whichAllah Hath given them of His Grace, think that it is good for them: Nay, itwill be the worse for them: soon shall the things which they covetouslywithheld be tied to their necks Like a twisted collar, on the Day ofJudgment. To Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth; and Allahis well-acquainted with all that ye do.
3/181 Allah hath heard the taunt of those who say: "Truly, Allah isindigent and we are rich!"- We shall certainly record their word and (theiract) of slaying the prophets in defiance of right, and We shall say: "Tasteye the penalty of the Scorching Fire!
3/182 "This is because of the (unrighteous deeds) which your handssent on before ye: For Allah never harms those who serve Him."
3/183 They (also) said: "Allah took our promise not to believe in anmessenger unless He showed us a sacrifice consumed by Fire (From heaven)."Say: "There came to you messengers before me, with clear Signs and even withwhat ye ask for: why then did ye slay them, if ye speak the truth?"
3/184 Then if they reject thee, so were rejected messengers beforethee, who came with Clear Signs, Books of dark prophecies, and the Book ofEnlightenment.
3/185 Every soul shall have a taste of death: And only on the Day ofJudgment shall you be paid your full recompense. Only he who is saved farfrom the Fire and admitted to the Garden will have attained the object (ofLife): For the life of this world is but goods and chattels of deception.
3/186 Ye shall certainly be tried and tested in your possessions andin your personal selves; and ye shall certainly Hear much that will grieveyou, from those who received the Book before you and from those who worshipmany gods. But if ye persevere patiently, and guard against evil,-then thatwill be a determining factor in all affairs.
3/187 And remember Allah took a covenant from the People of the Book,to make it known and clear to mankind, and not to hide it; but they threwit away behind their backs, and purchased with it some miserable gain! Andvile was the bargain they made!
3/188 Think not that those who exult in what they have broughtabout, and love to be praised for what they have not done,- think escapethe penalty. For them is a penalty Grievous indeed.
3/189 To Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth;and Allah hath power over all things.
3/190 Behold! in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and thealternation of night and day,- there are indeed Signs for men ofunderstanding,-
3/191 Men who celebrate the praises of Allah, standing, sitting, andlying down on their sides, and contemplate the (wonders of) creation in theheavens and the earth, (With the thought): "Our Lord! not for naught HastThou created (all) this! Glory to Thee! Give us salvation from the penaltyof the Fire.
3/192 "Our Lord! any whom Thou dost admit to the Fire, Truly Thoucoverest with shame, and never will wrong-doers Find any helpers!
3/193 "Our Lord! we have heard the call of one calling (Us) toFaith, 'Believe ye in the Lord,' and we have believed. Our Lord! Forgive usour sins, blot out from us our iniquities, and take to Thyself our souls inthe company of the righteous.
3/194 "Our Lord! Grant us what Thou didst promise unto us throughThine messengers, and save us from shame on the Day of Judgment: For Thounever breakest Thy promise."
3/195 And their Lord hath accepted of them, and answered them:"Never will I suffer to be lost the work of any of you, be he male orfemale: Ye are members, one of another: Those who have left their homes, orbeen driven out therefrom, or suffered harm in My Cause, or fought or beenslain,- verily, I will blot out from them their iniquities, and admit theminto Gardens with rivers flowing beneath;- A reward from the presence ofAllah, and from His presence is the best of rewards."
3/196 Let not the strutting about of the Unbelievers through theland deceive thee:
3/197 Little is it for enjoyment: Their ultimate abode is Hell: whatan evil bed (To lie on)!
3/198 On the other hand, for those who fear their Lord, are Gardens,with rivers flowing beneath; therein are they to dwell (for ever),- a giftfrom the presence of Allah; and that which is in the presence of Allah is thebest (bliss) for the righteous.
3/199 And there are, certainly, among the People of the Book, thosewho believe in Allah, in the revelation to you, and in the revelation tothem, bowing in humility to Allah: They will not sell the Signs of Allah for amiserable gain! For them is a reward with their Lord, and Allah is swift inaccount.
3/200 O ye who believe! Persevere in patience and constancy; vie insuch perseverance; strengthen each other; and fear Allah; that ye mayprosper.
