29/1 A.L.M.
29/2 Do men think that they will be left alone on saying, "Webelieve", and that they will not be tested?
29/3 We did test those before them, and Allah will certainly knowthose who are true from those who are false.
29/4 Do those who practise evil think that they will get the betterof Us? Evil is their judgment!
29/5 For those whose hopes are in the meeting with Allah (in theHereafter, let them strive); for the term (appointed) by Allah is surelycoming and He hears and knows (all things).
29/6 And if any strive (with might and main), they do so for theirown souls: for Allah is free of all needs from all creation.
29/7 Those who believe and work righteous deeds,- from them shallWe blot out all evil (that may be) in them, and We shall reward themaccording to the best of their deeds.
29/8 We have enjoined on man kindness to parents: but if they(either of them) strive (to force) thee to join with Me (in worship)anything of which thou hast no knowledge, obey them not. Ye have (all) toreturn to me, and I will tell you (the truth) of all that ye did.
29/9 And those who believe and work righteous deeds,- them shall Weadmit to the company of the Righteous.
29/10 Then there are among men such as say, "We believe in Allah"; butwhen they suffer affliction in (the cause of) Allah, they treat men'soppression as if it were the Wrath of Allah! And if help comes (to thee) fromthy Lord, they are sure to say, "We have (always) been with you!" Does notAllah know best all that is in the hearts of all creation?
29/11 And Allah most certainly knows those who believe, and ascertainly those who are Hypocrites.
29/12 And the Unbelievers say to those who believe: "Follow ourpath, and we will bear (the consequences) of your faults." Never in theleast will they bear their faults: in fact they are liars!
29/13 They will bear their own burdens, and (other) burdens alongwith their own, and on the Day of Judgments they will be called to accountfor their falsehoods.
29/14 We (once) sent Noah to his people, and he tarried among them athousand years less fifty: but the Deluge overwhelmed them while they(persisted in) sin.
29/15 But We saved him and the companions of the Ark, and We madethe (Ark) a Sign for all peoples!
29/16 And (We also saved) Abraham: behold, he said to his people,"Serve Allah and fear Him: that will be best for you- If ye understand!
29/17 "For ye do worship idols besides Allah, and ye invent falsehood.The things that ye worship besides Allah have no power to give yousustenance: then seek ye sustenance from Allah, serve Him, and be grateful toHim: to Him will be your return.
29/18 "And if ye reject (the Message), so did generations beforeyou: and the duty of the messenger is only to preach publicly (andclearly)."
29/19 See they not how Allah originates creation, then repeats it:truly that is easy for Allah.
29/20 Say: "Travel through the earth and see how Allah did originatecreation; so will Allah produce a later creation: for Allah has power over allthings.
29/21 "He punishes whom He pleases, and He grants Mercy to whom Hepleases, and towards Him are ye turned.
29/22 "Not on earth nor in heaven will ye be able (fleeing) tofrustrate (his Plan), nor have ye, besides Allah, any protector or helper."
29/23 Those who reject the Signs of Allah and the Meeting with Him (inthe Hereafter),- it is they who shall despair of My Mercy: it is they whowill (suffer) a most grievous Penalty.
29/24 So naught was the answer of (Abraham's) people except thatthey said: "Slay him or burn him." But Allah did save him from the Fire.Verily in this are Signs for people who believe.
29/25 And he said: "For you, ye have taken (for worship) idolsbesides Allah, out of mutual love and regard between yourselves in this life;but on the Day of Judgment ye shall disown each other and curse each other:and your abode will be the Fire, and ye shall have none to help."
29/26 But Lut had faith in Him: He said: "I will leave home for thesake of my Lord: for He is Exalted in Might, and Wise."
29/27 And We gave (Abraham) Isaac and Jacob, and ordained among hisprogeny Prophethood and Revelation, and We granted him his reward in thislife; and he was in the Hereafter (of the company) of the Righteous.
29/28 And (remember) Lut: behold, he said to his people: "Ye docommit lewdness, such as no people in Creation (ever) committed beforeyou.
29/29 "Do ye indeed approach men, and cut off the highway?- andpractise wickedness (even) in your councils?" But his people gave no answerbut this: they said: "Bring us the Wrath of Allah if thou tellest thetruth."
29/30 He said: "O my Lord! help Thou me against people who domischief!"
29/31 When Our Messengers came to Abraham with the good news, theysaid: "We are indeed going to destroy the people of this township: fortruly they are (addicted to) crime."
29/32 He said: "But there is Lut there." They said: "Well do we knowwho is there : we will certainly save him and his following,- except hiswife: she is of those who lag behind!"
29/33 And when Our Messengers came to Lut, he was grieved on theiraccount, and felt himself powerless (to protect) them: but they said: "Fearthou not, nor grieve: we are (here) to save thee and thy following, exceptthy wife: she is of those who lag behind.
29/34 "For we are going to bring down on the people of this townshipa Punishment from heaven, because they have been wickedly rebellious."
29/35 And We have left thereof an evident Sign, for any people who(care to) understand.
29/36 To the Madyan (people) (We sent) their brother Shu'aib. Thenhe said: "O my people! serve Allah, and fear the Last Day: nor commit evil onthe earth, with intent to do mischief."
29/37 But they rejected him: Then the mighty Blast seized them, andthey lay prostrate in their homes by the morning.
29/38 (Remember also) the 'Ad and the Thamud (people): clearly willappear to you from (the traces) of their buildings (their fate): the EvilOne made their deeds alluring to them, and kept them back from the Path,though they were gifted with intelligence and skill.
29/39 (Remember also) Qarun, Pharaoh, and Haman: there came to themMoses with Clear Signs, but they behaved with insolence on the earth; yetthey could not overreach (Us).
29/40 Each one of them We seized for his crime: of them, againstsome We sent a violent tornado (with showers of stones); some were caughtby a (mighty) Blast; some We caused the earth to swallow up; and some Wedrowned (in the waters): It was not Allah Who injured (or oppressed) them:"They injured (and oppressed) their own souls.
29/41 The parable of those who take protectors other than Allah isthat of the spider, who builds (to itself) a house; but truly the flimsiestof houses is the spider's house;- if they but knew.
29/42 Verily Allah doth know of (every thing) whatever that they callupon besides Him: and He is Exalted (in power), Wise.
29/43 And such are the Parables We set forth for mankind, but onlythose understand them who have knowledge.
29/44 Allah created the heavens and the earth in true (proportions):verily in that is a Sign for those who believe.
29/45 Recite what is sent of the Book by inspiration to thee, andestablish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjustdeeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) withoutdoubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do.
29/46 And dispute ye not with the People of the Book, except withmeans better (than mere disputation), unless it be with those of them whoinflict wrong (and injury): but say, "We believe in the revelation whichhas come down to us and in that which came down to you; Our Allah and yourAllah is one; and it is to Him we bow (in Islam)."
29/47 And thus (it is) that We have sent down the Book to thee. Sothe People of the Book believe therein, as also do some of these (paganArabs): and none but Unbelievers reject our signs.
29/48 And thou wast not (able) to recite a Book before this (Bookcame), nor art thou (able) to transcribe it with thy right hand: In thatcase, indeed, would the talkers of vanities have doubted.
29/49 Nay, here are Signs self-evident in the hearts of thoseendowed with knowledge: and none but the unjust reject Our Signs.
29/50 Ye they say: "Why are not Signs sent down to him from hisLord?" Say: "The signs are indeed with Allah: and I am indeed a clearWarner."
29/51 And is it not enough for them that we have sent down to theethe Book which is rehearsed to them? Verily, in it is Mercy and a Reminderto those who believe.
29/52 Say: "Enough is Allah for a witness between me and you: He knowswhat is in the heavens and on earth. And it is those who believe invanities and reject Allah, that will perish (in the end).
29/53 They ask thee to hasten on the Punishment (for them): had itnot been for a term (of respite) appointed, the Punishment would certainlyhave come to them: and it will certainly reach them,- of a sudden, whilethey perceive not!
29/54 They ask thee to hasten on the Punishment: but, of a surety,Hell will  encompass the Rejecters of Faith!-
29/55 On the Day that the Punishment shall cover them from abovethem and from below them, and (a Voice) shall say: "Taste ye (the fruits)of your deeds!"
29/56 O My servants who believe! truly, spacious is My Earth:therefore serve ye Me - (and Me alone)!
29/57 Every soul shall have a taste of death in the end to Us shallye be brought back.
29/58 But those who believe and work deeds of righteousness - tothem shall We give a Home in Heaven,- lofty mansions beneath which flowrivers,- to dwell therein for aye;- an excellent reward for those who do(good)!-
29/59 Those who persevere in patience, and put their trust, in theirLord and Cherisher.
29/60 How many are the creatures that carry not their ownsustenance? It is Allah who feeds (both) them and you: for He hears and knows(all things).
29/61 If indeed thou ask them who has created the heavens and theearth and subjected the sun and the moon (to his Law), they will certainlyreply, "Allah". How are they then deluded away (from the truth)?
29/62 Allah enlarges the sustenance (which He gives) to whichever ofHis servants He pleases; and He (similarly) grants by (strict) measure, (asHe pleases): for Allah has full knowledge of all things.
29/63 And if indeed thou ask them who it is that sends down rainfrom the sky, and gives life therewith to the earth after its death, theywill certainly reply, "Allah!" Say, "Praise be to Allah!" But most of themunderstand not.
29/64 What is the life of this world but amusement and play? butverily the Home in the Hereafter,- that is life indeed, if they but knew.
29/65 Now, if they embark on a boat, they call on Allah, making theirdevotion sincerely (and exclusively) to Him; but when He has delivered themsafely to (dry) land, behold, they give a share (of their worship toothers)!-
29/66 Disdaining ungratefully Our gifts, and giving themselves up to(worldly) enjoyment! But soon will they know.
29/67 Do they not then see that We have made a sanctuary secure, andthat men are being snatched away from all around them? Then, do theybelieve in that which is vain, and reject the Grace of Allah?
29/68 And who does more wrong than he who invents a lie against Allahor rejects the Truth when it reaches him? Is there not a home in Hell forthose who reject Faith?
29/69 And those who strive in Our (cause),- We will certainly guidethem to our Paths: For verily Allah is with those who do right.
