7/1 Alif, Lam, Mim, Sad.
7/2 A Book revealed unto thee,- So let thy heart be oppressed nomore by any difficulty on that account,- that with it thou mightest warn(the erring) and teach the Believers).
7/3 Follow (O men!) the revelation given unto you from your Lord,and follow not, as friends or protectors, other than Him. Little it is yeremember of admonition.
7/4 How many towns have We destroyed (for their sins)? Ourpunishment took them on a sudden by night or while they slept for theirafternoon rest.
7/5 When (thus) Our punishment took them, no cry did they utterbut this: "Indeed we did wrong."
7/6 Then shall we question those to whom Our message was sent andthose by whom We sent it.
7/7 And verily, We shall recount their whole story with knowledge,for We were never absent (at any time or place).
7/8 The balance that day will be true (to nicety): those whosescale (of good) will be heavy, will prosper:
7/9 Those whose scale will be light, will be their souls inperdition, for that they wrongfully treated Our signs.
7/10 It is We Who have placed you with authority on earth, andprovided you therein with means for the fulfilment of your life: small arethe thanks that ye give!
7/11 It is We Who created you and gave you shape; then We bade theangels prostrate to Adam, and they prostrate; not so Iblis; He refused tobe of those who prostrate.
7/12 (Allah) said: "What prevented thee from prostrating when Icommanded thee?" He said: "I am better than he: Thou didst create me fromfire, and him from clay."
7/13 (Allah) said: "Get thee down from this: it is not for thee to bearrogant here: get out, for thou art of the meanest (of creatures)."
7/14 He said: "Give me respite till the day they are raised up."
7/15 (Allah) said: "Be thou among those who have respite."
7/16 He said: "Because thou hast thrown me out of the way, lo! Iwill lie in wait for them on thy straight way:
7/17 "Then will I assault them from before them and behind them,from their right and their left: Nor wilt thou find, in most of them,gratitude (for thy mercies)."
7/18 (Allah) said: "Get out from this, disgraced and expelled. If anyof them follow thee,- Hell will I fill with you all.
7/19 "O Adam! dwell thou and thy wife in the Garden, and enjoy (itsgood things) as ye wish: but approach not this tree, or ye run into harmand transgression."
7/20 Then began Satan to whisper suggestions to them, bringingopenly before their minds all their shame that was hidden from them(before): he said: "Your Lord only forbade you this tree, lest ye shouldbecome angels or such beings as live for ever."
7/21 And he swore to them both, that he was their sincere adviser.
7/22 So by deceit he brought about their fall: when they tasted ofthe tree, their shame became manifest to them, and they began to sewtogether the leaves of the garden over their bodies. And their Lord calledunto them: "Did I not forbid you that tree, and tell you that Satan was anavowed enemy unto you?"
7/23 They said: "Our Lord! We have wronged our own souls: If thouforgive us not and bestow not upon us Thy Mercy, we shall certainly belost."
7/24 (Allah) said: "Get ye down. With enmity between yourselves. Onearth will be your dwelling-place and your means of livelihood,- for atime."
7/25 He said: "Therein shall ye live, and therein shall ye die; butfrom it shall ye be taken out (at last)."
7/26 O ye Children of Adam! We have bestowed raiment upon you tocover your shame, as well as to be an adornment to you. But the raiment ofrighteousness,- that is the best. Such are among the Signs of Allah, thatthey may receive admonition!
7/27 O ye Children of Adam! Let not Satan seduce you, in the samemanner as He got your parents out of the Garden, stripping them of theirraiment, to expose their shame: for he and his tribe watch you from aposition where ye cannot see them: We made the evil ones friends (only) tothose without faith.
7/28 When they do aught that is shameful, they say: "We found ourfathers doing so"; and "Allah commanded us thus": Say: "Nay, Allah nevercommands what is shameful: do ye say of Allah what ye know not?"
7/29 Say: "My Lord hath commanded justice; and that ye set yourwhole selves (to Him) at every time and place of prayer, and call upon Him,making your devotion sincere as in His sight: such as He created you in thebeginning, so shall ye return."
7/30 Some He hath guided: Others have (by their choice) deservedthe loss of their way; in that they took the evil ones, in preference toAllah, for their friends and protectors, and think that they receiveguidance.
7/31 O Children of Adam! wear your beautiful apparel at every timeand place of prayer: eat and drink: But waste not by excess, for Allah lovethnot the wasters.
7/32 Say: Who hath forbidden the beautiful (gifts) of Allah, which Hehath produced for His servants, and the things, clean and pure, (which Hehath provided) for sustenance? Say: They are, in the life of this world,for those who believe, (and) purely for them on the Day of Judgment. Thusdo We explain the signs in detail for those who understand.
7/33 Say: the things that my Lord hath indeed forbidden are:shameful deeds, whether open or secret; sins and trespasses against truthor reason; assigning of partners to Allah, for which He hath given noauthority; and saying things about Allah of which ye have no knowledge.
7/34 To every people is a term appointed: when their term isreached, not an hour can they cause delay, nor (an hour) can they advance(it in anticipation).
7/35 O ye Children of Adam! whenever there come to you messengersfrom amongst you, rehearsing My signs unto you,- those who are righteousand mend (their lives),- on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.
7/36 But those who reject Our signs and treat them with arrogance,-they are companions of the Fire, to dwell therein (for ever).
7/37 Who is more unjust than one who invents a lie against Allah orrejects His Signs? For such, their portion appointed must reach them fromthe Book (of decrees): until, when our messengers (of death) arrive andtake their souls, they say: "Where are the things that ye used to invokebesides Allah?" They will reply, "They have left us in the lurch," And theywill bear witness against themselves, that they had rejected Allah.
7/38 He will say: "Enter ye in the company of the peoples whopassed away before you - men and jinns, - into the Fire." Every time a newpeople enters, it curses its sister-people (that went before), until theyfollow each other, all into the Fire. Saith the last about the first: "OurLord! it is these that misled us: so give them a double penalty in theFire." He will say: "Doubled for all" : but this ye do not understand.
7/39 Then the first will say to the last: "See then! No advantagehave ye over us; so taste ye of the penalty for all that ye did !"
7/40 To those who reject Our signs and treat them with arrogance,no opening will there be of the gates of heaven, nor will they enter thegarden, until the camel can pass through the eye of the needle: Such is Ourreward for those in sin.
7/41 For them there is Hell, as a couch (below) and folds and foldsof covering above: such is Our requital of those who do wrong.
7/42 But those who believe and work righteousness,- no burden do Weplace on any soul, but that which it can bear,- they will be Companions ofthe Garden, therein to dwell (for ever).
7/43 And We shall remove from their hearts any lurking sense ofinjury;- beneath them will be rivers flowing;- and they shall say: "Praisebe to Allah, who hath guided us to this (felicity): never could we have foundguidance, had it not been for the guidance of Allah: indeed it was the truth,that the messengers of our Lord brought unto us." And they shall hear thecry: "Behold! the garden before you! Ye have been made its inheritors, foryour deeds (of righteousness)."
7/44 The Companions of the Garden will call out to the Companionsof the Fire: "We have indeed found the promises of our Lord to us true:Have you also found Your Lord's promises true?" They shall say, "Yes"; buta crier shall proclaim between them: "The curse of Allah is on thewrong-doers;-
7/45 "Those who would hinder (men) from the path of Allah and wouldseek in it something crooked: they were those who denied the Hereafter."
7/46 Between them shall be a veil, and on the heights will be menwho would know every one by his marks: they will call out to the Companionsof the Garden, "peace on you": they will not have entered, but they willhave an assurance (thereof).
7/47 When their eyes shall be turned towards the Companions of theFire, they will say: "Our Lord! send us not to the company of thewrong-doers."
7/48 The men on the heights will call to certain men whom they willknow from their marks, saying: "Of what profit to you were your hoards andyour arrogant ways?
7/49 "Behold! are these not the men whom you swore that Allah withHis Mercy would never bless? Enter ye the Garden: no fear shall be on you,nor shall ye grieve."
7/50 The Companions of the Fire will call to the Companions of theGarden: "Pour down to us water or anything that Allah doth provide for yoursustenance." They will say: "Both these things hath Allah forbidden to thosewho rejected Him."
7/51 "Such as took their religion to be mere amusement and play,and were deceived by the life of the world." That day shall We forget themas they forgot the meeting of this day of theirs, and as they were wont toreject Our signs.
7/52 For We had certainly sent unto them a Book, based onknowledge,  which We explained in detail,- a guide and a mercy to all whobelieve.
7/53 Do they just wait for the final fulfilment of the event? Onthe day the event is finally fulfilled, those who disregarded it beforewill say: "The messengers of our Lord did indeed bring true (tidings). Havewe no intercessors now to intercede on our behalf? Or could we be sentback? then should we behave differently from our behaviour in the past." Infact they will have lost their souls, and the things they invented willleave them in the lurch.
7/54 Your Guardian-Lord is Allah, Who created the heavens and theearth in six days, and is firmly established on the throne (of authority):He draweth the night as a veil o'er the day, each seeking the other inrapid succession: He created the sun, the moon, and the stars, (all)governed by laws under His command. Is it not His to create and to govern?Blessed be Allah, the Cherisher and Sustainer of the worlds!
7/55 Call on your Lord with humility and in private: for Allah lovethnot those who trespass beyond bounds.
7/56 Do no mischief on the earth, after it hath been set in order,but call on Him with fear and longing (in your hearts): for the Mercy ofAllah is (always) near to those who do good.
7/57 It is He Who sendeth the winds like heralds of glad tidings,going before His mercy: when they have carried the heavy-laden clouds, Wedrive them to a land that is dead, make rain to descend thereon, andproduce every kind of harvest therewith: thus shall We raise up the dead:perchance ye may remember.
7/58 From the land that is clean and good, by the will of itsCherisher, springs up produce, (rich) after its kind: but from the landthat is bad, springs up nothing but that which is niggardly: thus do weexplain the signs by various (symbols) to those who are grateful.
7/59 We sent Noah to his people. He said: "O my people! worshipAllah! ye have no other god but Him. I fear for you the punishment of adreadful day!
7/60 The leaders of his people said: "Ah! we see thee evidentlywandering (in mind)."
7/61 He said: "O my people! No wandering is there in my (mind): onthe contrary I am a messenger from the Lord and Cherisher of the worlds!
7/62 "I but fulfil towards you the duties of my Lord's mission:Sincere is my advice to you, and I know from Allah something that ye knownot.
7/63 "Do ye wonder that there hath come to you a message from yourLord, through a man of your own people, to warn you,- so that ye may fearAllah and haply receive His Mercy?"
7/64 But they rejected him, and We delivered him, and those withhim, in the Ark: but We overwhelmed in the flood those who rejected Oursigns. They were indeed a blind people!
7/65 To the 'Ad people, (We sent) Hud, one of their (own) brethren:He said: O my people! worship Allah! ye have no other god but Him will ye notfear (Allah)?"
7/66 The leaders of the Unbelievers among his people said: "Ah! wesee thou art an imbecile!" and "We think thou art a liar!"
7/67 He said: "O my people! I am no imbecile, but (I am) a messengerfrom the Lord and Cherisher of the worlds!
7/68 "I but fulfil towards you the duties of my Lord's mission: Iam to you a sincere and trustworthy adviser.
7/69 "Do ye wonder that there hath come to you a message from yourLord through a man of your own people, to warn you? call in remembrancethat He made you inheritors after the people of Noah, and gave you astature tall among the nations. Call in remembrance the benefits (ye havereceived) from Allah: that so ye may prosper."
7/70 They said: "Comest thou to us, that we may worship Allah alone,and give up the  cult of our fathers? bring us what thou threatenest uswith, if so be that thou tellest the truth!"
7/71 He said: "Punishment and wrath have already come upon you fromyour Lord: dispute ye with me over names which ye have devised - ye andyour fathers,- without authority from Allah? then wait: I am amongst you,also waiting."
7/72 We saved him and those who adhered to him. By Our mercy, andWe cut off the roots of those who rejected Our signs and did not believe.
7/73 To the Thamud people (We sent) Salih, one of their ownbrethren: He said: "O my people! worship Allah: ye have no other god but Him. Now hath come unto you a clear (Sign) from your Lord! This she-camel ofAllah is a Sign unto you: So leave her to graze in Allah's earth, and let hercome to no harm, or ye shall be seized with a grievous punishment.
7/74 "And remember how He made you inheritors after the 'Ad peopleand gave you habitations in the land: ye build for yourselves palaces andcastles in (open) plains, and care out homes in the mountains; so bring toremembrance the benefits (ye have received) from Allah, and refrain from eviland mischief on the earth."
7/75 The leaders of the arrogant party among his people said tothose who were reckoned powerless - those among them who believed: "know yeindeed that Salih is a messenger from his Lord?" They said: "We do indeedbelieve in the revelation which hath been sent through him."
7/76 The Arrogant party said: "For our part, we reject what yebelieve in."
7/77 Then they ham-strung the she-camel, and insolently defied theorder of their Lord, saying: "O Salih! bring about thy threats, if thou arta messenger (of Allah)!"
7/78 So the earthquake took them unawares, and they lay prostratein their homes in the morning!
7/79 So Salih left them, saying: "O my people! I did indeed conveyto you the message for which I was sent by my Lord: I gave you goodcounsel, but ye love not good counsellors!"
7/80 We also (sent) Lut: He said to his people: "Do ye commitlewdness such as no people in creation (ever) committed before you?
7/81 "For ye practise your lusts on men in preference to women : yeare indeed a people transgressing beyond bounds."
7/82 And his people gave no answer but this: they said, "Drive themout of your city: these are indeed men who want to be clean and pure!"
7/83 But we saved him and his family, except his wife: she was ofthose who legged behind.
7/84 And we rained down on them a shower (of brimstone): Then seewhat was the end of those who indulged in sin and crime!
7/85 To the Madyan people We sent Shu'aib, one of their ownbrethren: he said: "O my people! worship Allah; Ye have no other god but Him.Now hath come unto you a clear (Sign) from your Lord! Give just measure andweight, nor withhold from the people the things that are their due; and dono mischief on the earth after it has been set in order: that will be bestfor you, if ye have Faith.
7/86 "And squat not on every road, breathing threats, hinderingfrom the path of Allah those who believe in Him, and seeking in it somethingcrooked; But remember how ye were little, and He gave you increase. Andhold in your mind's eye what was the end of those who did mischief.
7/87 "And if there is a party among you who believes in the messagewith which I have been sent, and a party which does not believe, holdyourselves in patience until Allah doth decide between us: for He is the bestto decide.
7/88 The leaders, the arrogant party among his people, said: "OShu'aib! we shall certainly drive thee out of our city - (thee) and thosewho believe with thee; or else ye (thou and they) shall have to return toour ways and religion." He said: "What! even though we do detest (them)?
7/89 "We should indeed invent a lie against Allah, if we returned toyour ways after Allah hath rescued us therefrom; nor could we by any mannerof means return thereto unless it be as in the will and plan of Allah, OurLord. Our Lord can reach out to the utmost recesses of things by Hisknowledge. In the Allah is our trust. our Lord! decide Thou between us andour people in truth, for Thou art the best to decide."
7/90 The leaders, the unbelievers among his people, said: "If yefollow Shu'aib, be sure then ye are ruined!"
7/91 But the earthquake took them unawares, and they lay prostratein their homes before the morning!
7/92 The men who reject Shu'aib became as if they had never been inthe homes where they had flourished: the men who rejected Shu'aib - it wasthey who were ruined!
7/93 So Shu'aib left them, saying: "O my people! I did indeedconvey to you the messages for which I was sent by my Lord: I gave you goodcounsel, but how shall I lament over a people who refuse to believe!"
7/94 Whenever We sent a prophet to a town, We took up its people insuffering and adversity, in order that they might learn humility.
7/95 Then We changed their suffering into prosperity, until theygrew and multiplied, and began to say: "Our fathers (too) were touched bysuffering and affluence" ... Behold! We called them to account of a sudden,while they realised not (their peril).
7/96 If the people of the towns had but believed and feared Allah, Weshould indeed have opened out to them (All kinds of) blessings from heavenand earth; but they rejected (the truth), and We brought them to book fortheir misdeeds.
7/97 Did the people of the towns feel secure against the coming ofOur wrath by night while they were asleep?
7/98 Or else did they feel secure against its coming in broaddaylight while they played about (care-free)?
7/99 Did they then feel secure against the plan of Allah?- but no onecan feel secure from the Plan of Allah, except those (doomed) to ruin!
7/100 To those who inherit the earth in succession to its (previous)possessors, is it not a guiding, (lesson) that, if We so willed, We couldpunish them (too) for their sins, and seal up their hearts so that theycould not hear?
7/101 Such were the towns whose story We (thus) relate unto thee:There came indeed to them their messengers with clear (signs):  But theywould not believe what they had rejected before. Thus doth Allah seal up thehearts of those who reject faith.
7/102 Most of them We found not men (true) to their covenant: butmost of them We found rebellious and disobedient.
7/103 Then after them We sent Moses with Our signs to Pharaoh andhis chiefs, but they wrongfully rejected them: So see what was the end ofthose who made mischief.
7/104 Moses said: "O Pharaoh! I am a messenger from the Lord of theworlds,-
7/105 One for whom it is right to say nothing but truth about Allah.Now have I come unto you (people), from your Lord, with a clear (Sign): Solet the Children of Israel depart along with me."
7/106 (Pharaoh) said: "If indeed thou hast come with a Sign, show itforth,- if thou tellest the truth."
7/107 Then (Moses) threw his rod, and behold! it was a serpent,plain (for all to see)!
7/108 And he drew out his hand, and behold! it was white to allbeholders!
7/109 Said the Chiefs of the people of Pharaoh: "This is indeed asorcerer well-versed.
7/110 "His plan is to get you out of your land: then what is it yecounsel?"
7/111 They said: "Keep him and his brother in suspense (for awhile); and send to the cities men to collect-
7/112 And bring up to thee all (our) sorcerers well-versed."
7/113 So there came the sorcerers to Pharaoh: They said, "of coursewe shall have a (suitable) reward if we win!"
7/114 He said: "Yea, (and more),- for ye shall in that case be(raised to posts) nearest (to my person)."
7/115 They said: "O Moses! wilt thou throw (first), or shall we havethe (first) throw?"
7/116 Said Moses: "Throw ye (first)." So when they threw, theybewitched the eyes of the people, and struck terror into them: for theyshowed a great (feat of) magic.
7/117 We put it into Moses's mind by inspiration: "Throw (now) thyrod":and behold!  it swallows up straight away all the falsehoods whichthey fake!
7/118 Thus truth was confirmed, and all that they did was made of noeffect.
7/119 So the (great ones) were vanquished there and then, and weremade to look small.
7/120 But the sorcerers fell down prostrate in adoration.
7/121 Saying: "We believe in the Lord of the Worlds,-
7/122 "The Lord of Moses and Aaron."
7/123 Said Pharaoh: "Believe ye in Him before I give you permission?Surely this is a trick which ye have planned in the city to drive out itspeople: but soon shall ye know (the consequences).
7/124 "Be sure I will cut off your hands and your feet on appositesides, and I will cause you all to die on the cross."
7/125 They said: "For us, We are but sent back unto our Lord:
7/126 "But thou dost wreak thy vengeance on us simply because webelieved in the Signs of our Lord when they reached us! Our Lord! pour outon us patience and constancy, and take our souls unto thee as Muslims (whobow to thy will)!
7/127 Said the chiefs of Pharaoh's people: "Wilt thou leave Mosesand his people, to spread mischief in the land, and to abandon thee and thygods?" He said: "Their male children will we slay; (only) their femaleswill we save alive; and we have over them (power) irresistible."
7/128 Said Moses to his people: "Pray for help from Allah, and (wait)in patience and constancy: for the earth is Allah's, to give as a heritage tosuch of His servants as He pleaseth; and the end is (best) for therighteous.
7/129 They said: "We have had (nothing but) trouble, both before andafter thou camest to us." He said: "It may be that your Lord will destroyyour enemy and make you inheritors in the earth; that so He may try you byyour deeds."
7/130 We punished the people of Pharaoh with years (of droughts) andshortness of crops; that they might receive admonition.
7/131 But when good (times) came, they said, "This is due to us;"When gripped by calamity, they ascribed it to evil omens connected withMoses and those with him! Behold! in truth the omens of evil are theirs inAllah's sight, but most of them do not understand!
7/132 They said (to Moses): "Whatever be the Signs thou bringest, towork therewith thy sorcery on us, we shall never believe in thee.
7/133 So We sent (plagues) on them: Wholesale death, Locusts, Lice,Frogs, And Blood: Signs openly self-explained: but they were steeped inarrogance,- a people given to sin.
7/134 Every time the penalty fell on them, they said: "O Moses! onyour behalf call on thy Lord in virtue of his promise to thee: If thou wiltremove the penalty from us, we shall truly believe in thee, and we shallsend away the Children of Israel with thee."
7/135 But every time We removed the penalty from them according to afixed term which they had to fulfil,- Behold! they broke their word!
7/136 So We exacted retribution from them: We drowned them in thesea, because they rejected Our Signs and failed to take warning from them.
7/137 And We made a people, considered weak (and of no account),inheritors of lands in both east and west, - lands whereon We sent down Ourblessings. The fair promise of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children ofIsrael, because they had patience and constancy, and We levelled to theground the great works and fine buildings which Pharaoh and his peopleerected (with such pride).
7/138 We took the Children of Israel (with safety) across the sea.They came upon a people devoted entirely to some idols they had. They said:"O Moses! fashion for us  a god like unto the gods they have." He said:"Surely ye are a people without knowledge.
7/139 "As to these folk,- the cult they are in is (but) a fragmentof a ruin, and vain is the (worship) which they practise."
7/140 He said: "Shall I seek for you a god other than the (true)Allah, when it is Allah Who hath endowed you with gifts above the nations?"
7/141 And remember We rescued you from Pharaoh's people, whoafflicted you with the worst of penalties, who slew your male children andsaved alive your females: in that was a momentous trial from your Lord.
7/142 We appointed for Moses thirty nights, and completed (theperiod) with ten (more): thus was completed the term (of communion) withhis Lord, forty nights. And Moses had charged his brother Aaron (before hewent up): "Act for me amongst my people: Do right, and follow not the wayof those who do mischief."
7/143 When Moses came to the place appointed by Us, and his Lordaddressed him, He said: "O my Lord! show (Thyself) to me, that I may lookupon thee." Allah said: "By no means canst thou see Me (direct); But lookupon the mount; if it abide in its place, then shalt thou see Me." When hisLord manifested His glory on the Mount, He made it as dust. And Moses felldown in a swoon. When he recovered his senses he said: "Glory be to Thee!to Thee I turn in repentance, and I am the first to believe."
7/144 (Allah) said: "O Moses! I have chosen thee above (other) men, bythe mission I (have given thee) and the words I (have spoken to thee): takethen the (revelation) which I give thee, and be of those who give thanks."
7/145 And We ordained laws for him in the tablets in all matters,both commanding and explaining all things, (and said): "Take and hold thesewith firmness, and enjoin thy people to hold fast by the best in theprecepts: soon shall I show you the homes of the wicked,- (How they liedesolate)."
7/146 Those who behave arrogantly on the earth in defiance of right- them will I turn away from My signs: Even if they see all the signs, theywill not believe in them; and if they see the way of right conduct, theywill not adopt it as the way; but if they see the way of error, that is theway they will adopt. For they have rejected our signs, and failed to takewarning from them.
7/147 Those who reject Our signs and the meeting in the Hereafter,-vain are their deeds: Can they expect to be rewarded except as they havewrought?
7/148 The people of Moses made, in his absence, out of theirornaments, the image of calf, (for worship): it seemed to low: did they notsee that it could neither speak to them, nor show them the way? They tookit for worship and they did wrong.
7/149 When they repented, and saw that they had erred, they said:"If our Lord have not mercy upon us and forgive us, we shall indeed be ofthose who perish."
7/150 When Moses came back to his people, angry and grieved, hesaid: "Evil it is that ye have done in my place in my absence: did ye makehaste to bring on the judgment of your Lord?" He put down the tablets,seized his brother by (the hair of) his head, and dragged him to him. Aaronsaid: "Son of my mother! the people did indeed reckon me as naught, andwent near to slaying me! Make not the enemies rejoice over my misfortune,nor count thou me amongst the people of sin."
7/151 Moses prayed: "O my Lord! forgive me and my brother! admit usto Thy mercy! for Thou art the Most Merciful of those who show mercy!"
7/152 Those who took the calf (for worship) will indeed beoverwhelmed with wrath from their Lord, and with shame in this life: thusdo We recompense those who invent (falsehoods).
7/153 But those who do wrong but repent thereafter and (truly)believe,- verily thy Lord is thereafter Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
7/154 When the anger of Moses was appeased, he took up the tablets:in the writing thereon was guidance and Mercy for such as fear their Lord.
7/155 And Moses chose seventy of his people for Our place ofmeeting: when they were seized with violent quaking, he prayed: "O my Lord!if it had been Thy will Thou couldst have destroyed, long before, both themand me: wouldst Thou destroy us for the deeds of the foolish ones among us?this is no more than Thy trial: by it Thou causest whom Thou wilt to stray,and Thou leadest whom Thou wilt into the right path. Thou art ourProtector: so forgive us and give us Thy mercy; for Thou art the best ofthose who forgive.
7/156 "And ordain for us that which is good, in this life and in theHereafter: for we have turned unto Thee." He said: "With My punishment Ivisit whom I will; but My mercy extendeth to all things. That (mercy) Ishall ordain for those who do right, and practise  regular charity, andthose who believe in Our signs;-
7/157 "Those who follow the messenger, the unlettered Prophet, whomthey find mentioned in their own (scriptures),- in the law and the Gospel;-for he commands them what is just and forbids them what is evil; he allowsthem as lawful what is good (and pure) and prohibits them from what is bad(and impure); He releases them from their heavy burdens and from the yokesthat are upon them. So it is those who believe in him, honour him, helphim, and follow the light which is sent down with him,- it is they who willprosper."
7/158 Say: "O men! I am sent unto you all, as the Messenger of Allah, toWhom belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth: there is no godbut He: it is He That giveth both life and death. So believe in Allah and HisMessenger, the Unlettered Prophet, who believeth in Allah and His words: followhim that (so) ye may be guided."
7/159 Of the people of Moses there is a section who guide and dojustice in the light of truth.
7/160 We divided them into twelve tribes or nations. We directedMoses by inspiration, when his (thirsty) people asked him for water:"Strike the rock with thy staff": out of it there gushed forth twelvesprings: Each group knew its own place  for water. We gave them the shadeof clouds, and sent down to them manna and quails, (saying): "Eat of thegood things We have provided for you": (but they rebelled); to Us they didno harm, but they harmed their own souls.
7/161 And remember it was said to them: "Dwell in this town and eattherein as ye wish, but say the word of humility and enter the gate in aposture of humility: We shall forgive you your faults; We shall increase(the portion of) those who do good."
7/162 But the transgressors among them changed the word from thatwhich had been given them so we sent on them a plague from heaven. For thatthey repeatedly transgressed.
7/163 Ask them concerning the town standing close by the sea.Behold! they transgressed in the matter of the Sabbath. For on the day oftheir Sabbath their fish did come to them, openly holding up their heads,but on the day they had no Sabbath, they came not: thus did We make a trialof them, for they were given to transgression.
7/164 When some of them said: "Why do ye preach to a people whom Allahwill destroy or visit with a terrible punishment?"- said the preachers:" Todischarge our duty to your Lord, and perchance they may fear Him."
7/165 When they disregarded the warnings that had been given them,We rescued those who forbade Evil; but We visited the wrong-doers with agrievous punishment because they were given to transgression.
7/166 When in their insolence they transgressed (all) prohibitions,We said to them: "Be ye apes, despised and rejected."
7/167 Behold! thy Lord did declare that He would send against them,to the Day of Judgment, those who would afflict them with grievous penalty.Thy Lord is quick in retribution, but He is also Oft-forgiving, MostMerciful.
7/168 We broke them up into sections on this earth. There are amongthem some that are the righteous, and some that are the opposite. We havetried them with both prosperity and adversity: In order that they mightturn (to us).
7/169 After them succeeded an (evil) generation: They inherited theBook, but they chose (for themselves) the vanities of this world, saying(for excuse): "(Everything) will be forgiven us." (Even so), if similarvanities came their way, they would (again) seize them.  Was not thecovenant of the Book taken from them, that they would not ascribe to Allahanything but the truth? and they study what is in the Book. But best forthe righteous is the home in the Hereafter. Will ye not understand?
7/170 As to those who hold fast by the Book and establish regularprayer,- never shall We suffer the reward of the righteous to perish.
7/171 When We shook the Mount over them, as if it had been a canopy,and they thought it was going to fall on them (We said): "Hold firmly towhat We have given you, and bring (ever) to remembrance what is therein;perchance ye may fear Allah."
7/172 When thy Lord drew forth from the Children of Adam - fromtheir loins - their descendants, and made them testify concerningthemselves, (saying): "Am I not your Lord (who cherishes and sustainsyou)?"- They said: "Yea! We do testify!" (This), lest ye should say on theDay of Judgment: "Of this we were never mindful":
7/173 Or lest ye should say: "Our fathers before us may have takenfalse gods, but we are (their) descendants after them: wilt Thou thendestroy us because of the deeds of men who were futile?"
7/174 Thus do We explain the signs in detail; and perchance they mayturn (unto Us).
7/175 Relate to them the story of the man to whom We sent Our signs,but he passed them by: so Satan followed him up, and he went astray.
7/176 If it had been Our will, We should have elevated him with Oursigns; but he inclined to the earth, and followed his own vain desires. Hissimilitude is that of a dog: if you attack him, he lolls out his tongue, orif you leave him alone, he (still) lolls out his tongue. That is thesimilitude of those who reject Our signs; So relate the story; perchancethey may reflect.
7/177 Evil as an example are people who reject Our signs and wrongtheir own souls.
7/178 Whom Allah doth guide,- he is on the right path: whom He rejectsfrom His guidance,- such are the persons who perish.
7/179 Many are the Jinns and men we have made for Hell: They havehearts wherewith they understand not, eyes wherewith they see not, and earswherewith they hear not. They are like cattle,- nay more misguided: forthey are heedless (of warning).
7/180 The most beautiful names belong to Allah: so call on him bythem; but shun such men as use profanity in his names: for what they do,they will soon be requited.
7/181 Of those We have created are people who direct (others) withtruth. And dispense justice therewith.
7/182 Those who reject Our signs, We shall gradually visit withpunishment, in ways they perceive not;
7/183 Respite will I grant unto them: for My scheme is strong (andunfailing).
7/184 Do they not reflect? Their companion is not seized withmadness: he is but a perspicuous warner.
7/185 Do they see nothing in the government of the heavens and theearth and all that Allah hath created? (Do they not see) that it may well bethat their terms is nigh drawing to an end? In what message after this willthey then believe?
7/186 To such as Allah rejects from His guidance, there can be noguide: He will leave them in their trespasses, wandering in distraction.
7/187 They ask thee about the (final) Hour - when will be itsappointed time? Say: "The knowledge thereof is with my Lord (alone): Nonebut He can reveal as to when it will occur. Heavy were its burden throughthe heavens and the earth. Only, all of a sudden will it come to you." Theyask thee as if thou  Wert eager in search thereof: Say: "The knowledgethereof is with Allah (alone), but most men know not."
7/188 Say: "I have no power over any good or harm to myself exceptas Allah willeth. If I had knowledge of the unseen, I should have multipliedall good, and no evil should have touched me: I am but a warner, and abringer of glad tidings to those who have faith."
7/189 It is He Who created you from a single person, and made hismate of like nature, in order that he might dwell with her (in love). Whenthey are united, she bears a light burden and carries it about (unnoticed).When she grows heavy, they both pray to Allah their Lord, (saying): "If Thougivest us a goodly child, we vow we shall (ever) be grateful."
7/190 But when He giveth them a goodly child, they ascribe to othersa share in the gift they have received: but Allah is exalted high above thepartners they ascribe to Him.
7/191 Do they indeed ascribe to Him as partners things that cancreate nothing, but are themselves created?
7/192 No aid can they give them, nor can they aid themselves!
7/193 If ye call them to guidance, they will not obey: For you it isthe same whether ye call them or ye hold your peace!
7/194 Verily those whom ye call upon besides Allah are servants likeunto you: Call upon them, and let them listen to your prayer, if ye are(indeed) truthful!
7/195 Have they feet to walk with? Or hands to lay hold with? Oreyes to see with? Or ears to hear with? Say: "Call your 'god-partners',scheme (your worst) against me, and give me no respite!
7/196 "For my Protector is Allah, Who revealed the Book (from time totime), and He will choose and befriend the righteous.
7/197 "But those ye call upon besides Him, are unable to help you,and indeed to help themselves."
7/198 If thou callest them to guidance, they hear not. Thou wilt seethem looking at thee, but they see not.
7/199 Hold to forgiveness; command what is right; But turn away fromthe ignorant.
7/200 If a suggestion from Satan assail thy (mind), seek refuge withAllah; for He heareth and knoweth (all things).
7/201 Those who fear Allah, when a thought of evil from Satan assaultsthem, bring Allah to remembrance, when lo! they see (aright)!
7/202 But their brethren (the evil ones) plunge them deeper intoerror, and never relax (their efforts).
7/203 If thou bring them not a revelation, they say: "Why hast thounot got it together?" Say: "I but follow what is revealed to me from myLord: this is (nothing but) lights from your Lord, and Guidance, and mercy,for any who have faith."
7/204 When the Qur'an is read, listen to it with attention, and holdyour peace:  that ye may receive Mercy.
7/205 And do thou (O reader!) Bring thy Lord to remembrance in thy(very) soul, with humility and in reverence, without loudness in words, inthe mornings and evenings; and be not thou of those who are unheedful.
7/206 Those who are near to thy Lord, disdain not to do Him worship:They celebrate His praises, and prostrate before Him.
