2/1 A.L.M.
2/2 This is the Book; in it is guidance sure, without doubt, tothose who fear Allah;
2/3 Who believe in the Unseen, are steadfast in prayer, and spendout of what We have provided for them;
2/4 And who believe in the Revelation sent to thee, and sentbefore thy time, and (in their hearts) have the assurance of theHereafter.
2/5 They are on (true) guidance, from their Lord, and it is thesewho will prosper.
2/6 As to those who reject Faith, it is the same to them whetherthou warn them or do not warn them; they will not believe.
2/7 Allah hath set a seal on their hearts and on their hearing, andon their eyes is a veil; great is the penalty they (incur).
2/8 Of the people there are some who say: "We believe in Allah andthe Last Day;" but they do not (really) believe.
2/9 Fain would they deceive Allah and those who believe, but theyonly deceive themselves, and realise (it) not!
2/10 In their hearts is a disease; and Allah has increased theirdisease: And grievous is the penalty they (incur), because they are false(to themselves).
2/11 When it is said to them: "Make not mischief on the earth,"they say: "Why, we only Want to make peace!"
2/12 Of a surety, they are the ones who make mischief, but theyrealise (it) not.
2/13 When it is said to them: "Believe as the others believe:" Theysay: "Shall we believe as the fools believe?" Nay, of a surety they are thefools, but they do not know.
2/14 When they meet those who believe, they say: "We believe;" butwhen they are alone with their evil ones, they say: "We are really withyou: We (were) only jesting."
2/15 Allah will throw back their mockery on them, and give them ropein their trespasses; so they will wander like blind ones (To and fro).
2/16 These are they who have bartered Guidance for error: But theirtraffic is profitless, and they have lost true direction,
2/17 Their similitude is that of a man who kindled a fire; when itlighted all around him, Allah took away their light and left them in utterdarkness. So they could not see.
2/18 Deaf, dumb, and blind, they will not return (to the path).
2/19 Or (another similitude) is that of a rain-laden cloud from thesky: In it are zones of darkness, and thunder and lightning: They presstheir fingers in their ears to keep out the stunning thunder-clap, thewhile they are in terror of death. But Allah is ever round the rejecters ofFaith!
2/20 The lightning all but snatches away their sight; every timethe light (Helps) them, they walk therein, and when the darkness grows onthem, they stand still. And if Allah willed, He could take away their facultyof hearing and seeing; for Allah hath power over all things.
2/21 O ye people! Adore your Guardian-Lord, who created you andthose who came before you, that ye may have the chance to learnrighteousness;
2/22 Who has made the earth your couch, and the heavens yourcanopy; and sent down rain from the heavens; and brought forth therewithFruits for your sustenance; then set not up rivals unto Allah when ye know(the truth).
2/23 And if ye are in doubt as to what We have revealed from timeto time to Our servant, then produce a Sura like thereunto; and call yourwitnesses or helpers (If there are any) besides Allah, if your (doubts) aretrue.
2/24 But if ye cannot- and of a surety ye cannot- then fear theFire whose fuel is men and stones,- which is prepared for those who rejectFaith.
2/25 But give glad tidings to those who believe and workrighteousness, that their portion is Gardens, beneath which rivers flow.Every time they are fed with fruits therefrom, they say: "Why, this is whatwe were fed with before," for they are given things in similitude; and theyhave therein companions pure (and holy); and they abide therein (forever).
2/26 Allah disdains not to use the similitude of things, lowest aswell as highest. Those who believe know that it is truth from their Lord;but those who reject Faith say: "What means Allah by this similitude?" By itHe causes many to stray, and many He leads into the right path; but Hecauses not to stray, except those who forsake (the path),-
2/27 Those who break Allah's Covenant after it is ratified, and whosunder what Allah Has ordered to be joined, and do mischief on earth: Thesecause loss (only) to themselves.
2/28 How can ye reject the faith in Allah?- seeing that ye werewithout life, and He gave you life; then will He cause you to die, and willagain bring you to life; and again to Him will ye return.
2/29 It is He Who hath created for you all things that are onearth; Moreover His design comprehended the heavens, for He gave order andperfection to the seven firmaments; and of all things He hath perfectknowledge.
2/30 Behold, thy Lord said to the angels: "I will create avicegerent on earth." They said: "Wilt Thou place therein one who will makemischief therein and shed blood?- whilst we do celebrate Thy praises andglorify Thy holy (name)?" He said: "I know what ye know not."
2/31 And He taught Adam the names of all things; then He placedthem before the angels, and said: "Tell me the names of these if ye areright."
2/32 They said: "Glory to Thee, of knowledge We have none, savewhat Thou Hast taught us: In truth it is Thou Who art perfect in knowledgeand wisdom."
2/33 He said: "O Adam! Tell them their names." When he had toldthem, Allah said: "Did I not tell you that I know the secrets of heaven andearth, and I know what ye reveal and what ye conceal?"
2/34 And behold, We said to the angels: "Bow down to Adam" and theybowed down. Not so Iblis: he refused and was haughty: He was of those whoreject Faith.
2/35 We said: "O Adam! dwell thou and thy wife in the Garden; andeat of the bountiful things therein as (where and when) ye will; butapproach not this tree, or ye run into harm and transgression."
2/36 Then did Satan make them slip from the (garden), and get themout of the state (of felicity) in which they had been. We said: "Get yedown, all (ye people), with enmity between yourselves. On earth will beyour dwelling-place and your means of livelihood - for a time."
2/37 Then learnt Adam from his Lord words of inspiration, and hisLord Turned towards him; for He is Oft-Returning, Most Merciful.
2/38 We said: "Get ye down all from here; and if, as is sure, therecomes to you Guidance from me, whosoever follows My guidance, on them shallbe no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/39 "But those who reject Faith and belie Our Signs, they shall becompanions of the Fire; they shall abide therein."
2/40 O Children of Israel! call to mind the (special) favour whichI bestowed upon you, and fulfil your covenant with Me as I fulfil MyCovenant with you, and fear none but Me.
2/41 And believe in what I reveal, confirming the revelation whichis with you, and be not the first to reject Faith therein, nor sell MySigns for a small price; and fear Me, and Me alone.
2/42 And cover not Truth with falsehood, nor conceal the Truth whenye know (what it is).
2/43 And be steadfast in prayer; practise regular charity; and bowdown your heads with those who bow down (in worship).
2/44 Do ye enjoin right conduct on the people, and forget (Topractise it) yourselves, and yet ye study the Scripture? Will ye notunderstand?
2/45 Nay, seek (Allah's) help with patient perseverance and prayer:It is indeed hard, except to those who bring a lowly spirit,-
2/46 Who bear in mind the certainty that they are to meet theirLord, and that they are to return to Him.
2/47 Children of Israel! call to mind the (special) favour which Ibestowed upon you, and that I preferred you to all other (for My Message).
2/48 Then guard yourselves against a day when one soul shall notavail another nor shall intercession be accepted for her, nor shallcompensation be taken from her, nor shall anyone be helped (from outside).
2/49 And remember, We delivered you from the people of Pharaoh:They set you hard tasks and punishments, slaughtered your sons and let yourwomen-folk live; therein was a tremendous trial from your Lord.
2/50 And remember We divided the sea for you and saved you anddrowned Pharaoh's people within your very sight.
2/51 And remember We appointed forty nights for Moses, and in hisabsence ye took the calf (for worship), and ye did grievous wrong.
2/52 Even then We did forgive you; there was a chance for you to begrateful.
2/53 And remember We gave Moses the Scripture and the Criterion(Between right and wrong): There was a chance for you to be guided aright.
2/54 And remember Moses said to his people: "O my people! Ye haveindeed wronged yourselves by your worship of the calf: So turn (inrepentance) to your Maker, and slay yourselves (the wrong-doers); that willbe better for you in the sight of your Maker." Then He turned towards you(in forgiveness): For He is Oft-Returning, Most Merciful.
2/55 And remember ye said: "O Moses! We shall never believe in theeuntil we see Allah manifestly," but ye were dazed with thunder and lightingeven as ye looked on.
2/56 Then We raised you up after your death: Ye had the chance tobe grateful.
2/57 And We gave you the shade of clouds and sent down to you Mannaand quails, saying: "Eat of the good things We have provided for you:" (Butthey rebelled); to us they did no harm, but they harmed their own souls.
2/58 And remember We said: "Enter this town, and eat of the plentytherein as ye wish; but enter the gate with humility, in posture and inwords, and We shall forgive you your faults and increase (the portion of)those who do good."
2/59 But the transgressors changed the word from that which hadbeen given them; so We sent on the transgressors a plague from heaven, forthat they infringed (Our command) repeatedly.
2/60 And remember Moses prayed for water for his people; We said:"Strike the rock with thy staff." Then gushed forth therefrom twelvesprings. Each group knew its own place for water. So eat and drink of thesustenance provided by Allah, and do no evil nor mischief on the (face ofthe) earth.
2/61 And remember ye said: "O Moses! we cannot endure one kind offood (always); so beseech thy Lord for us to produce for us of what theearth groweth, -its pot-herbs, and cucumbers, Its garlic, lentils, andonions." He said: "Will ye exchange the better for the worse? Go ye down toany town, and ye shall find what ye want!" They were covered withhumiliation and misery; they drew on themselves the wrath of Allah. Thisbecause they went on rejecting the Signs of Allah and slaying His Messengerswithout just cause. This because they rebelled and went on transgressing.
2/62 Those who believe (in the Qur'an), and those who follow theJewish (scriptures), and the Christians and the Sabians,- any who believein Allah and the Last Day, and work righteousness, shall have their rewardwith their Lord; on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/63 And remember We took your covenant and We raised above you(The towering height) of Mount (Sinai) : (Saying): "Hold firmly to what Wehave given you and bring (ever) to remembrance what is therein: Perchanceye may fear Allah."
2/64 But ye turned back thereafter: Had it not been for the Graceand Mercy of Allah to you, ye had surely been among the lost.
2/65 And well ye knew those amongst you who transgressed in thematter of the Sabbath: We said to them: "Be ye apes, despised andrejected."
2/66 So We made it an example to their own time and to theirposterity, and a lesson to those who fear Allah.
2/67 And remember Moses said to his people: "Allah commands that yesacrifice a heifer." They said: "Makest thou a laughing-stock of us?" Hesaid: "Allah save me from being an ignorant (fool)!"
2/68 They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to uswhat (heifer) it is!" He said; "He says: The heifer should be neither tooold nor too young, but of middling age. Now do what ye are commanded!"
2/69 They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to usHer colour." He said: "He says: A fawn-coloured heifer, pure and rich intone, the admiration of beholders!"
2/70 They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to uswhat she is: To us are all heifers alike: We wish indeed for guidance, ifAllah wills."
2/71 He said: "He says: A heifer not trained to till the soil orwater the fields; sound and without blemish." They said: "Now hast thoubrought the truth." Then they offered her in sacrifice, but not withgood-will.
2/72 Remember ye slew a man and fell into a dispute amongyourselves as to the crime: But Allah was to bring forth what ye did hide.
2/73 So We said: "Strike the (body) with a piece of the (heifer)."Thus Allah bringeth the dead to life and showeth you His Signs: Perchance yemay understand.
2/74 Thenceforth were your hearts hardened: They became like a rockand even worse in hardness. For among rocks there are some from whichrivers gush forth; others there are which when split asunder send forthwater; and others which sink for fear of Allah. And Allah is not unmindful ofwhat ye do.
2/75 Can ye (o ye men of Faith) entertain the hope that they willbelieve in you?- Seeing that a party of them heard the Word of Allah, andperverted it knowingly after they understood it.
2/76 Behold! when they meet the men of Faith, they say: "Webelieve": But when they meet each other in private, they say: "Shall youtell them what Allah hath revealed to you, that they may engage you inargument about it before your Lord?"- Do ye not understand (their aim)?
2/77 Know they not that Allah knoweth what they conceal and what theyreveal?
2/78 And there are among them illiterates, who know not the Book,but (see therein their own) desires, and they do nothing but conjecture.
2/79 Then woe to those who write the Book with their own hands, andthen say:"This is from Allah," to traffic with it for miserable price!- Woeto them for what their hands do write, and for the gain they make thereby.
2/80 And they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for a fewnumbered days:" Say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah, for He never breaksHis promise? or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know?"
2/81 Nay, those who seek gain in evil, and are girt round by theirsins,- they are companions of the Fire: Therein shall they abide (Forever).
2/82 But those who have faith and work righteousness, they arecompanions of the Garden: Therein shall they abide (For ever).
2/83 And remember We took a covenant from the Children of Israel(to this effect): Worship none but Allah; treat with kindness your parentsand kindred, and orphans and those in need; speak fair to the people; besteadfast in prayer; and practise regular charity. Then did ye turn back,except a few among you, and ye backslide (even now).
2/84 And remember We took your covenant (to this effect): Shed noblood amongst you, nor turn out your own people from your homes: and thisye solemnly ratified, and to this ye can bear witness.
2/85 After this it is ye, the same people, who slay amongyourselves, and banish a party of you from their homes; assist (Theirenemies) against them, in guilt and rancour; and if they come to you ascaptives, ye ransom them, though it was not lawful for you to banish them.Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in, and do ye reject therest? but what is the reward for those among you who behave like this butdisgrace in this life?- and on the Day of Judgment they shall be consignedto the most grievous penalty. For Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.
2/86 These are the people who buy the life of this world at theprice of the Hereafter: their penalty shall not be lightened nor shall theybe helped.
2/87 We gave Moses the Book and followed him up with a successionof messengers; We gave Jesus the son of Mary Clear (Signs) and strengthenedhim with the holy spirit. Is it that whenever there comes to you a messengerwith what ye yourselves desire not, ye are puffed up with pride?- Some yecalled impostors, and others ye slay!
2/88 They say, "Our hearts are the wrappings (which preserve Allah'sWord: we need no more)." Nay, Allah's curse is on them for their blasphemy:Little is it they believe.
2/89 And when there comes to them a Book from Allah, confirming whatis with them,- although from of old they had prayed for victory againstthose without Faith,- when there comes to them that which they (should)have recognised, they refuse to believe in it but the curse of Allah is onthose without Faith.
2/90 Miserable is the price for which they have sold their souls,in that they deny (the revelation) which Allah has sent down, in insolentenvy that Allah of His Grace should send it to any of His servants Hepleases: Thus have they drawn on themselves Wrath upon Wrath. Andhumiliating is the punishment of those who reject Faith.
2/91 When it is said to them, "Believe in what Allah Hath sent down,"they say, "We believe in what was sent down to us:" yet they reject allbesides, even if it be Truth confirming what is with them. Say: "Why thenhave ye slain the prophets of Allah in times gone by, if ye did indeedbelieve?"
2/92 There came to you Moses with clear (Signs); yet ye worshippedthe calf (Even) after that, and ye did behave wrongfully.
2/93 And remember We took your covenant and We raised above you(the towering height) of Mount (Sinai): (Saying): "Hold firmly to what Wehave given you, and hearken (to the Law)": They said:" We hear, and wedisobey:" And they had to drink into their hearts (of the taint) of thecalf because of their Faithlessness. Say: "Vile indeed are the behests ofyour Faith if ye have any faith!"
2/94 Say: "If the last Home, with Allah, be for you specially, andnot for anyone else, then seek ye for death, if ye are sincere."
2/95 But they will never seek for death, on account of the (sins)which their hands have sent on before them. and Allah is well-acquainted withthe wrong-doers.
2/96 Thou wilt indeed find them, of all people, most greedy oflife,-even more than the idolaters: Each one of them wishes He could begiven a life of a thousand years: But the grant of such life will not savehim from (due) punishment. For Allah sees well all that they do.
2/97 Say: Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel-for he brings down the(revelation) to thy heart by Allah's will, a confirmation of what wentbefore, and guidance and glad tidings for those who believe,-
2/98 Whoever is an enemy to Allah and His angels and messengers, toGabriel and Michael,- Lo! Allah is an enemy to those who reject Faith.
2/99 We have sent down to thee Manifest Signs (ayat); and nonereject them but those who are perverse.
2/100 Is it not (the case) that every time they make a covenant,some party among them throw it aside?- Nay, Most of them are faithless.
2/101 And when there came to them a messenger from Allah, confirmingwhat was with them, a party of the people of the Book threw away the Bookof Allah behind their backs, as if (it had been something) they did notknow!
2/102 They followed what the evil ones gave out (falsely) againstthe power of Solomon: the blasphemers Were, not Solomon, but the evil ones,teaching men Magic, and such things as came down at babylon to the angelsHarut and Marut. But neither of these taught anyone (Such things) withoutsaying: "We are only for trial; so do not blaspheme." They learned fromthem the means to sow discord between man and wife. But they could not thusharm anyone except by Allah's permission. And they learned what harmed them,not what profited them. And they knew that the buyers of (magic) would haveno share in the happiness of the Hereafter. And vile was the price forwhich they did sell their souls, if they but knew!
2/103 If they had kept their Faith and guarded themselves from evil,far better had been the reward from their Lord, if they but knew!
2/104 O ye of Faith! Say not (to the Messenger) words of ambiguousimport, but words of respect; and hearken (to him): To those without Faithis a grievous punishment.
2/105 It is never the wish of those without Faith among the Peopleof the Book, nor of the Pagans, that anything good should come down to youfrom your Lord. But Allah will choose for His special Mercy whom He will -for Allah is Lord of grace abounding.
2/106 None of Our revelations do We abrogate or cause to beforgotten, but We substitute something better or similar: Knowest thou notthat Allah Hath power over all things?
2/107 Knowest thou not that to Allah belongeth the dominion of theheavens and the earth? And besides Him ye have neither patron nor helper.
2/108 Would ye question your Messenger as Moses was questioned of old?but whoever changeth from Faith to Unbelief, Hath strayed without doubtfrom the even way.
2/109 Quite a number of the People of the Book wish they could Turnyou (people) back to infidelity after ye have believed, from selfish envy,after the Truth hath become Manifest unto them: But forgive and overlook,Till Allah accomplish His purpose; for Allah Hath power over all things.
2/110 And be steadfast in prayer and regular in charity: Andwhatever good ye send forth for your souls before you, ye shall find itwith Allah: for Allah sees Well all that ye do.
2/111 And they say: "None shall enter Paradise unless he be a Jew ora Christian." Those are their (vain) desires. Say: "Produce your proof ifye are truthful."
2/112 Nay,-whoever submits His whole self to Allah and is a doer ofgood,- He will get his reward with his Lord; on such shall be no fear, norshall they grieve.
2/113 The Jews say: "The Christians have naught (to stand) upon; andthe Christians say: "The Jews have naught (To stand) upon." Yet they(Profess to) study the (same) Book. Like unto their word is what those saywho know not; but Allah will judge between them in their quarrel on the Dayof Judgment.
2/114 And who is more unjust than he who forbids that in places forthe worship of Allah, Allah's name should be celebrated?-whose zeal is (infact) to ruin them? It was not fitting that such should themselves enterthem except in fear. For them there is nothing but disgrace in this world,and in the world to come, an exceeding torment.
2/115 To Allah belong the east and the West: Whithersoever ye turn,there is the presence of Allah. For Allah is all-Pervading, all-Knowing.
2/116 They say: "Allah hath begotten a son" :Glory be to Him.-Nay, toHim belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: everything rendersworship to Him.
2/117 To Him is due the primal origin of the heavens and the earth:When He decreeth a matter, He saith to it: "Be," and it is.
2/118 Say those without knowledge: "Why speaketh not Allah unto us? orwhy cometh not unto us a Sign?" So said the people before them words ofsimilar import. Their hearts are alike. We have indeed made clear the Signsunto any people who hold firmly to Faith (in their hearts).
2/119 Verily We have sent thee in truth as a bearer of glad tidingsand a warner: But of thee no question shall be asked of the Companions ofthe Blazing Fire.
2/120 Never will the Jews or the Christians be satisfied with theeunless thou follow their form of religion. Say: "The Guidance of Allah,-thatis the (only) Guidance." Wert thou to follow their desires after theknowledge which hath reached thee, then wouldst thou find neither Protectornor helper against Allah.
2/121 Those to whom We have sent the Book study it as it should bestudied: They are the ones that believe therein: Those who reject faiththerein,- the loss is their own.
2/122 O Children of Israel! call to mind the special favour which Ibestowed upon you, and that I preferred you to all others (for MyMessage).
2/123 Then guard yourselves against a-Day when one soul shall notavail another, nor shall compensation be accepted from her nor shallintercession profit her nor shall anyone be helped (from outside).
2/124 And remember that Abraham was tried by his Lord with certaincommands, which he fulfilled: He said: "I will make thee an Imam to theNations." He pleaded: "And also (Imams) from my offspring!" He answered:"But My Promise is not within the reach of evil-doers."
2/125 Remember We made the House a place of assembly for men and aplace of safety; and take ye the station of Abraham as a place of prayer;and We covenanted with Abraham and Isma'il, that they should sanctify MyHouse for those who compass it round, or use it as a retreat, or bow, orprostrate themselves (therein in prayer).
2/126 And remember Abraham said: "My Lord, make this a City ofPeace, and feed its people with fruits,-such of them as believe in Allah andthe Last Day." He said: "(Yea), and such as reject Faith,-for a while willI grant them their pleasure, but will soon drive them to the torment ofFire,- an evil destination (indeed)!"
2/127 And remember Abraham and Isma'il raised the foundations of theHouse (With this prayer): "Our Lord! Accept (this service) from us: ForThou art the All-Hearing, the All-knowing.
2/128 "Our Lord! make of us Muslims, bowing to Thy (Will), and ofour progeny a people Muslim, bowing to Thy (will); and show us our placefor the celebration of (due) rites; and turn unto us (in Mercy); for Thouart the Oft-Returning, Most Merciful.
2/129 "Our Lord! send amongst them a Messenger of their own, whoshall rehearse Thy Signs to them and instruct them in scripture and wisdom,and sanctify them: For Thou art the Exalted in Might, the Wise."
2/130 And who turns away from the religion of Abraham but such asdebase their souls with folly? Him We chose and rendered pure in thisworld: And he will be in the Hereafter in the ranks of the Righteous.
2/131 Behold! his Lord said to him: "Bow (thy will to Me):" He said:"I bow (my will) to the Lord and Cherisher of the Universe."
2/132 And this was the legacy that Abraham left to his sons, and sodid Jacob; "Oh my sons! Allah hath chosen the Faith for you; then die notexcept in the Faith of Islam."
2/133 Were ye witnesses when death appeared before Jacob? Behold, hesaid to his sons: "What will ye worship after me?" They said: "We shallworship Thy god and the god of thy fathers, of Abraham, Isma'il and Isaac,-the one (True) Allah: To Him we bow (in Islam)."
2/134 That was a people that hath passed away. They shall reap thefruit of what they did, and ye of what ye do! Of their merits there is noquestion in your case!
2/135 They say: "Become Jews or Christians if ye would be guided (Tosalvation)." Say thou: "Nay! (I would rather) the Religion of Abraham theTrue, and he joined not gods with Allah."
2/136 Say ye: "We believe in Allah, and the revelation given to us,and to Abraham, Isma'il, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and that given toMoses and Jesus, and that given to (all) prophets from their Lord: We makeno difference between one and another of them: And we bow to Allah (inIslam)."
2/137 So if they believe as ye believe, they are indeed on the rightpath; but if they turn back, it is they who are in schism; but Allah willsuffice thee as against them, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Knowing.
2/138 (Our religion is) the Baptism of Allah: And who can baptizebetter than Allah? And it is He Whom we worship.
2/139 Say: Will ye dispute with us about Allah, seeing that He is ourLord and your Lord; that we are responsible for our doings and ye foryours; and that We are sincere (in our faith) in Him?
2/140 Or do ye say that Abraham, Isma'il Isaac, Jacob and the Tribeswere Jews or Christians? Say: Do ye know better than Allah? Ah! who is moreunjust than those who conceal the testimony they have from Allah? but Allah isnot unmindful of what ye do!
2/141 That was a people that hath passed away. They shall reap thefruit of what they did, and ye of what ye do! Of their merits there is noquestion in your case:
2/142 The fools among the people will say: "What hath turned themfrom the Qibla to which they were used?" Say: To Allah belong both east andWest: He guideth whom He will to a Way that is straight.
2/143 Thus, have We made of you an Ummat justly balanced, that yemight be witnesses over the nations, and the Messenger a witness overyourselves; and We appointed the Qibla to which thou wast used, only totest those who followed the Messenger from those who would turn on theirheels (From the Faith). Indeed it was (A change) momentous, except to thoseguided by Allah. And never would Allah Make your faith of no effect. For Allah isto all people Most surely full of kindness, Most Merciful.
2/144 We see the turning of thy face (for guidance to the heavens:now Shall We turn thee to a Qibla that shall please thee. Turn then Thyface in the direction of the sacred Mosque: Wherever ye are, turn yourfaces in that direction. The people of the Book know well that that is thetruth from their Lord. Nor is Allah unmindful of what they do.
2/145 Even if thou wert to bring to the people of the Book all theSigns (together), they would not follow Thy Qibla; nor art thou going tofollow their Qibla; nor indeed will they follow each other's Qibla. If thouafter the knowledge hath reached thee, Wert to follow their (vain)desires,-then wert thou Indeed (clearly) in the wrong.
2/146 The people of the Book know this as they know their own sons;but some of them conceal the truth which they themselves know.
2/147 The Truth is from thy Lord; so be not at all in doubt.
2/148 To each is a goal to which Allah turns him; then strive together(as in a race) Towards all that is good. Wheresoever ye are, Allah will bringyou Together. For Allah Hath power over all things.
2/149 From whencesoever Thou startest forth, turn Thy face in thedirection of the sacred Mosque; that is indeed the truth from the Lord. AndAllah is not unmindful of what ye do.
2/150 So from whencesoever Thou startest forth, turn Thy face in thedirection of the sacred Mosque; and wheresoever ye are, Turn your facethither: that there be no ground of dispute against you among the people,except those of them that are bent on wickedness; so fear them not, butfear Me; and that I may complete My favours on you, and ye May (consent to)be guided;
2/151 A similar (favour have ye already received) in that We havesent among you a Messenger of your own, rehearsing to you Our Signs, andsanctifying you, and instructing you in Scripture and Wisdom, and in newknowledge.
2/152 Then do ye remember Me; I will remember you. Be grateful toMe, and reject not Faith.
2/153 O ye who believe! seek help with patient perseverance andprayer; for Allah is with those who patiently persevere.
2/154 And say not of those who are slain in the way of Allah: "Theyare dead." Nay, they are living, though ye perceive (it) not.
2/155 Be sure we shall test you with something of fear and hunger,some loss in goods or lives or the fruits (of your toil), but give gladtidings to those who patiently persevere,
2/156 Who say, when afflicted with calamity: "To Allah We belong, andto Him is our return":-
2/157 They are those on whom (Descend) blessings from Allah, andMercy, and they are the ones that receive guidance.
2/158 Behold! Safa and Marwa are among the Symbols of Allah. So ifthose who visit the House in the Season or at other times, should compassthem round, it is no sin in them. And if any one obeyeth his own impulse togood,- be sure that Allah is He Who recogniseth and knoweth.
2/159 Those who conceal the clear (Signs) We have sent down, and theGuidance, after We have made it clear for the people in the Book,-on themshall be Allah's curse, and the curse of those entitled to curse,-
2/160 Except those who repent and make amends and openly declare(the Truth): To them I turn; for I am Oft-returning, Most Merciful.
2/161 Those who reject Faith, and die rejecting,- on them is Allah'scurse, and the curse of angels, and of all mankind;
2/162 They will abide therein: Their penalty will not be lightened,nor will respite be their (lot).
2/163 And your Allah is One Allah: There is no god but He, MostGracious, Most Merciful.
2/164 Behold! in the creation of the heavens and the earth; in thealternation of the night and the day; in the sailing of the ships throughthe ocean for the profit of mankind; in the rain which Allah Sends down fromthe skies, and the life which He gives therewith to an earth that is dead;in the beasts of all kinds that He scatters through the earth; in thechange of the winds, and the clouds which they Trail like their slavesbetween the sky and the earth;- (Here) indeed are Signs for a people thatare wise.
2/165 Yet there are men who take (for worship) others besides Allah,as equal (with Allah): They love them as they should love Allah. But those ofFaith are overflowing in their love for Allah. If only the unrighteous couldsee, behold, they would see the penalty: that to Allah belongs all power, andAllah will strongly enforce the penalty.
2/166 Then would those who are followed clear themselves of thosewho follow (them) : They would see the penalty, and all relations betweenthem would be cut off.
2/167 And those who followed would say: "If only We had one morechance, We would clear ourselves of them, as they have cleared themselvesof us." Thus will Allah show them (The fruits of) their deeds as (nothingbut) regrets. Nor will there be a way for them out of the Fire.
2/168 O ye people! Eat of what is on earth, Lawful and good; and donot follow the footsteps of the evil one, for he is to you an avowedenemy.
2/169 For he commands you what is evil and shameful, and that yeshould say of Allah that of which ye have no knowledge.
2/170 When it is said to them: "Follow what Allah hath revealed:" Theysay: "Nay! we shall follow the ways of our fathers." What! even thoughtheir fathers Were void of wisdom and guidance?
2/171 The parable of those who reject Faith is as if one were toshout Like a goat-herd, to things that listen to nothing but calls andcries: Deaf, dumb, and blind, they are void of wisdom.
2/172 O ye who believe! Eat of the good things that We have providedfor you, and be grateful to Allah, if it is Him ye worship.
2/173 He hath only forbidden you dead meat, and blood, and the fleshof swine, and that on which any other name hath been invoked besides thatof Allah. But if one is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience, nortransgressing due limits,- then is he guiltless. For Allah is Oft-forgivingMost Merciful.
2/174 Those who conceal Allah's revelations in the Book, and purchasefor them a miserable profit,- they swallow into themselves naught but Fire;Allah will not address them on the Day of Resurrection. Nor purify them:Grievous will be their penalty.
2/175 They are the ones who buy Error in place of Guidance andTorment in place of Forgiveness. Ah! what boldness (They show) for theFire!
2/176 (Their doom is) because Allah sent down the Book in truth butthose who seek causes of dispute in the Book are in a schism Far (from thepurpose).
2/177 It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces Towards eastor West; but it is righteousness- to believe in Allah and the Last Day, andthe Angels, and the Book, and the Messengers; to spend of your substance,out of love for Him, for your kin, for orphans, for the needy, for thewayfarer, for those who ask, and for the ransom of slaves; to be steadfastin prayer, and practice regular charity; to fulfil the contracts which yehave made; and to be firm and patient, in pain (or suffering) andadversity, and throughout all periods of panic. Such are the people oftruth, the Allah-fearing.
2/178 O ye who believe! the law of equality is prescribed to you incases of murder: the free for the free, the slave for the slave, the womanfor the woman. But if any remission is made by the brother of the slain,then grant any reasonable demand, and compensate him with handsomegratitude, this is a concession and a Mercy from your Lord. After thiswhoever exceeds the limits shall be in grave penalty.
2/179 In the Law of Equality there is (saving of) Life to you, o yemen of understanding; that ye may restrain yourselves.
2/180 It is prescribed, when death approaches any of you, if heleave any goods that he make a bequest to parents and next of kin,according to reasonable usage; this is due from the Allah-fearing.
2/181 If anyone changes the bequest after hearing it, the guiltshall be on those who make the change. For Allah hears and knows (Allthings).
2/182 But if anyone fears partiality or wrong-doing on the part ofthe testator, and makes peace between (The parties concerned), there is nowrong in him: For Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
2/183 O ye who believe! Fasting is prescribed to you as it wasprescribed to those before you, that ye may (learn) self-restraint,-
2/184 (Fasting) for a fixed number of days; but if any of you isill, or on a journey, the prescribed number (Should be made up) from dayslater. For those who can do it (With hardship), is a ransom, the feeding ofone that is indigent. But he that will give more, of his own free will,- itis better for him. And it is better for you that ye fast, if ye only knew.
2/185 Ramadhan is the (month) in which was sent down the Qur'an, asa guide to mankind, also clear (Signs) for guidance and judgment (Betweenright and wrong). So every one of you who is present (at his home) duringthat month should spend it in fasting, but if any one is ill, or on ajourney, the prescribed period (Should be made up) by days later. Allahintends every facility for you; He does not want to put to difficulties.(He wants you) to complete the prescribed period, and to glorify Him inthat He has guided you; and perchance ye shall be grateful.
2/186 When My servants ask thee concerning Me, I am indeed close (tothem): I listen to the prayer of every suppliant when he calleth on Me: Letthem also, with a will, Listen to My call, and believe in Me: That they maywalk in the right way.
2/187 Permitted to you, on the night of the fasts, is the approachto your wives. They are your garments and ye are their garments. Allahknoweth what ye used to do secretly among yourselves; but He turned to youand forgave you; so now associate with them, and seek what Allah Hathordained for you, and eat and drink, until the white thread of dawn appearto you distinct from its black thread; then complete your fast Till thenight appears; but do not associate with your wives while ye are in retreatin the mosques. Those are Limits (set by) Allah: Approach not nigh thereto.Thus doth Allah make clear His Signs to men: that they may learnself-restraint.
2/188 And do not eat up your property among yourselves for vanities,nor use it as bait for the judges, with intent that ye may eat upwrongfully and knowingly a little of (other) people's property.
2/189 They ask thee concerning the New Moons. Say: They are butsigns to mark fixed periods of time in (the affairs of) men, and forPilgrimage. It is no virtue if ye enter your houses from the back: It isvirtue if ye fear Allah. Enter houses through the proper doors: And fear Allah:That ye may prosper.
2/190 Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight you, but do nottransgress limits; for Allah loveth not transgressors.
2/191 And slay them wherever ye catch them, and turn them out fromwhere they have Turned you out; for tumult and oppression are worse thanslaughter; but fight them not at the Sacred Mosque, unless they (first)fight you there; but if they fight you, slay them. Such is the reward ofthose who suppress faith.
2/192 But if they cease, Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
2/193 And fight them on until there is no more Tumult or oppression,and there prevail justice and faith in Allah; but if they cease, Let there beno hostility except to those who practise oppression.
2/194 The prohibited month for the prohibited month,- and so for allthings prohibited,- there is the law of equality. If then any onetransgresses the prohibition against you, Transgress ye likewise againsthim. But fear Allah, and know that Allah is with those who restrainthemselves.
2/195 And spend of your substance in the cause of Allah, and make notyour own hands contribute to (your) destruction; but do good; for Allahloveth those who do good.
2/196 And complete the Hajj or 'umra in the service of Allah. But ifye are prevented (From completing it), send an offering for sacrifice, suchas ye may find, and do not shave your heads until the offering reaches theplace of sacrifice. And if any of you is ill, or has an ailment in hisscalp, (Necessitating shaving), (He should) in compensation either fast, orfeed the poor, or offer sacrifice; and when ye are in peaceful conditions(again), if any one wishes to continue the 'umra on to the hajj, He mustmake an offering, such as he can afford, but if he cannot afford it, Heshould fast three days during the hajj and seven days on his return, Makingten days in all. This is for those whose household is not in (the precinctsof) the Sacred Mosque. And fear Allah, and know that Allah Is strict inpunishment.
2/197 For Hajj are the months well known. If any one undertakes thatduty therein, Let there be no obscenity, nor wickedness, nor wrangling inthe Hajj. And whatever good ye do, (be sure) Allah knoweth it. And take aprovision (With you) for the journey, but the best of provisions is rightconduct. So fear Me, o ye that are wise.
2/198 It is no crime in you if ye seek of the bounty of your Lord(during pilgrimage). Then when ye pour down from (Mount) Arafat, celebratethe praises of Allah at the Sacred Monument, and celebrate His praises as Hehas directed you, even though, before this, ye went astray.
2/199 Then pass on at a quick pace from the place whence it is usualfor the multitude so to do, and ask for Allah's forgiveness. For Allah isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
2/200 So when ye have accomplished your holy rites, celebrate thepraises of Allah, as ye used to celebrate the praises of your fathers,- yea,with far more Heart and soul. There are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us(Thy bounties) in this world!" but they will have no portion in theHereafter.
2/201 And there are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us good in thisworld and good in the Hereafter, and defend us from the torment of theFire!"
2/202 To these will be allotted what they have earned; and Allah isquick in account.
2/203 Celebrate the praises of Allah during the Appointed Days. But ifany one hastens to leave in two days, there is no blame on him, and if anyone stays on, there is no blame on him, if his aim is to do right. Thenfear Allah, and know that ye will surely be gathered unto Him.
2/204 There is the type of man whose speech about this world's lifeMay dazzle thee, and he calls Allah to witness about what is in his heart;yet is he the most contentious of enemies.
2/205 When he turns his back, His aim everywhere is to spreadmischief through the earth and destroy crops and cattle. But Allah loveth notmischief.
2/206 When it is said to him, "Fear Allah", He is led by arrogance to(more) crime. Enough for him is Hell;-An evil bed indeed (To lie on)!
2/207 And there is the type of man who gives his life to earn thepleasure of Allah: And Allah is full of kindness to (His) devotees.
2/208 O ye who believe! Enter into Islam whole-heartedly; and follownot the footsteps of the evil one; for he is to you an avowed enemy.
2/209 If ye backslide after the clear (Signs) have come to you, thenknow that Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise.
2/210 Will they wait until Allah comes to them in canopies of clouds,with angels (in His train) and the question is (thus) settled? but to Allahdo all questions go back (for decision).
2/211 Ask the Children of Israel how many clear (Signs) We have sentthem. But if any one, after Allah's favour has come to him, substitutes(something else), Allah is strict in punishment.
2/212 The life of this world is alluring to those who reject faith,and they scoff at those who believe. But the righteous will be above themon the Day of Resurrection; for Allah bestows His abundance without measureon whom He will.
2/213 Mankind was one single nation, and Allah sent Messengers withglad tidings and warnings; and with them He sent the Book in truth, tojudge between people in matters wherein they differed; but the People ofthe Book, after the clear Signs came to them, did not differ amongthemselves, except through selfish contumacy. Allah by His Grace Guided thebelievers to the Truth, concerning that wherein they differed. For Allahguided whom He will to a path that is straight.
2/214 Or do ye think that ye shall enter the Garden (of bliss)without such (trials) as came to those who passed away before you? theyencountered suffering and adversity, and were so shaken in spirit that eventhe Messenger and those of faith who were with him cried: "When (will come)the help of Allah?" Ah! Verily, the help of Allah is (always) near!
2/215 They ask thee what they should spend (In charity). Say:Whatever ye spend that is good, is for parents and kindred and orphans andthose in want and for wayfarers. And whatever ye do that is good, -Allahknoweth it well.
2/216 Fighting is prescribed for you, and ye dislike it. But it ispossible that ye dislike a thing which is good for you, and that ye love athing which is bad for you. But Allah knoweth, and ye know not.
2/217 They ask thee concerning fighting in the Prohibited Month.Say: "Fighting therein is a grave (offence); but graver is it in the sightof Allah to prevent access to the path of Allah, to deny Him, to prevent accessto the Sacred Mosque, and drive out its members." Tumult and oppression areworse than slaughter. Nor will they cease fighting you until they turn youback from your faith if they can. And if any of you Turn back from theirfaith and die in unbelief, their works will bear no fruit in this life andin the Hereafter; they will be companions of the Fire and will abidetherein.
2/218 Those who believed and those who suffered exile and fought(and strove and struggled) in the path of Allah,- they have the hope of theMercy of Allah: And Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
2/219 They ask thee concerning wine and gambling. Say: "In them isgreat sin, and some profit, for men; but the sin is greater than theprofit." They ask thee how much they are to spend; Say: "What is beyondyour needs." Thus doth Allah Make clear to you His Signs: In order that yemay consider-
2/220 (Their bearings) on this life and the Hereafter. They ask theeconcerning orphans. Say: "The best thing to do is what is for their good;if ye mix their affairs with yours, they are your brethren; but Allah knowsthe man who means mischief from the man who means good. And if Allah hadwished, He could have put you into difficulties: He is indeed Exalted inPower, Wise."
2/221 Do not marry unbelieving women (idolaters), until theybelieve: A slave woman who believes is better than an unbelieving woman,even though she allures you. Nor marry (your girls) to unbelievers untilthey believe: A man slave who believes is better than an unbeliever, eventhough he allures you. Unbelievers do (but) beckon you to the Fire. But Allahbeckons by His Grace to the Garden (of bliss) and forgiveness, and makesHis Signs clear to mankind: That they may celebrate His praise.
2/222 They ask thee concerning women's courses. Say: They are a hurtand a pollution: So keep away from women in their courses, and do notapproach them until they are clean. But when they have purified themselves,ye may approach them in any manner, time, or place ordained for you by Allah.For Allah loves those who turn to Him constantly and He loves those who keepthemselves pure and clean.
2/223 Your wives are as a tilth unto you; so approach your tilthwhen or how ye will; but do some good act for your souls beforehand; andfear Allah. And know that ye are to meet Him (in the Hereafter), and give(these) good tidings to those who believe.
2/224 And make not Allah's (name) an excuse in your oaths againstdoing good, or acting rightly, or making peace between persons; for Allah isOne Who heareth and knoweth all things.
2/225 Allah will not call you to account for thoughtlessness in youroaths, but for the intention in your hearts; and He is Oft-forgiving, MostForbearing.
2/226 For those who take an oath for abstention from their wives, awaiting for four months is ordained; if then they return, Allah isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
2/227 But if their intention is firm for divorce, Allah heareth andknoweth all things.
2/228 Divorced women shall wait concerning themselves for threemonthly periods. Nor is it lawful for them to hide what Allah Hath created intheir wombs, if they have faith in Allah and the Last Day. And their husbandshave the better right to take them back in that period, if they wish forreconciliation. And women shall have rights similar to the rights againstthem, according to what is equitable; but men have a degree (of advantage)over them. And Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise.
2/229 A divorce is only permissible twice: after that, the partiesshould either hold Together on equitable terms, or separate with kindness.It is not lawful for you, (Men), to take back any of your gifts (from yourwives), except when both parties fear that they would be unable to keep thelimits ordained by Allah. If ye (judges) do indeed fear that they would beunable to keep the limits ordained by Allah, there is no blame on either ofthem if she give something for her freedom. These are the limits ordainedby Allah; so do not transgress them if any do transgress the limits ordainedby Allah, such persons wrong (Themselves as well as others).
2/230 So if a husband divorces his wife (irrevocably), He cannot,after that, re-marry her until after she has married another husband and Hehas divorced her. In that case there is no blame on either of them if theyre-unite, provided they feel that they can keep the limits ordained by Allah.Such are the limits ordained by Allah, which He makes plain to those whounderstand.
2/231 When ye divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their('Iddat), either take them back on equitable terms or set them free onequitable terms; but do not take them back to injure them, (or) to takeundue advantage; if any one does that; He wrongs his own soul. Do not treatAllah's Signs as a jest, but solemnly rehearse Allah's favours on you, and thefact that He sent down to you the Book and Wisdom, for your instruction.And fear Allah, and know that Allah is well acquainted with all things.
2/232 When ye divorce women, and they fulfil the term of their('Iddat), do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands, ifthey mutually agree on equitable terms. This instruction is for all amongstyou, who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is (the course Making for)most virtue and purity amongst you and Allah knows, and ye know not.
2/233 The mothers shall give such to their offspring for two wholeyears, if the father desires to complete the term. But he shall bear thecost of their food and clothing on equitable terms. No soul shall have aburden laid on it greater than it can bear. No mother shall be Treatedunfairly on account of her child. Nor father on account of his child, anheir shall be chargeable in the same way. If they both decide on weaning,by mutual consent, and after due consultation, there is no blame on them.If ye decide on a foster-mother for your offspring, there is no blame onyou, provided ye pay (the mother) what ye offered, on equitable terms. Butfear Allah and know that Allah sees well what ye do.
2/234 If any of you die and leave widows behind, they shall waitconcerning themselves four months and ten days: When they have fulfilledtheir term, there is no blame on you if they dispose of themselves in ajust and reasonable manner. And Allah is well acquainted with what ye do.
2/235 There is no blame on you if ye make an offer of betrothal orhold it in your hearts. Allah knows that ye cherish them in your hearts: Butdo not make a secret contract with them except in terms Honourable, norresolve on the tie of marriage till the term prescribed is fulfilled. Andknow that Allah Knoweth what is in your hearts, and take heed of Him; andknow that Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Forbearing.
2/236 There is no blame on you if ye divorce women beforeconsummation or the fixation of their dower; but bestow on them (A suitablegift), the wealthy according to his means, and the poor according to hismeans;- A gift of a reasonable amount is due from those who wish to do theright thing.
2/237 And if ye divorce them before consummation, but after thefixation of a dower for them, then the half of the dower (Is due to them),unless they remit it or (the man's half) is remitted by him in whose handsis the marriage tie; and the remission (of the man's half) is the nearestto righteousness. And do not forget Liberality between yourselves. For Allahsees well all that ye do.
2/238 Guard strictly your (habit of) prayers, especially the MiddlePrayer; and stand before Allah in a devout (frame of mind).
2/239 If ye fear (an enemy), pray on foot, or riding, (as may bemost convenient), but when ye are in security, celebrate Allah's praises inthe manner He has taught you, which ye knew not (before).
2/240 Those of you who die and leave widows should bequeath fortheir widows a year's maintenance and residence; but if they leave (Theresidence), there is no blame on you for what they do with themselves,provided it is reasonable. And Allah is Exalted in Power, Wise.
2/241 For divorced women Maintenance (should be provided) on areasonable (scale). This is a duty on the righteous.
2/242 Thus doth Allah Make clear His Signs to you: In order that yemay understand.
2/243 Didst thou not Turn by vision to those who abandoned theirhomes, though they were thousands (In number), for fear of death? Allah saidto them: "Die": Then He restored them to life. For Allah is full of bounty tomankind, but Most of them are ungrateful.
2/244 Then fight in the cause of Allah, and know that Allah Heareth andknoweth all things.
2/245 Who is he that will loan to Allah a beautiful loan, which Allahwill double unto his credit and multiply many times? It is Allah that giveth(you) Want or plenty, and to Him shall be your return.
2/246 Hast thou not Turned thy vision to the Chiefs of the Childrenof Israel after (the time of) Moses? they said to a prophet (That was)among them: "Appoint for us a king, that we May fight in the cause of Allah."He said: "Is it not possible, if ye were commanded to fight, that that yewill not fight?" They said: "How could we refuse to fight in the cause ofAllah, seeing that we were turned out of our homes and our families?" butwhen they were commanded to fight, they turned back, except a small bandamong them. But Allah Has full knowledge of those who do wrong.
2/247 Their Prophet said to them: "Allah hath appointed Talut as kingover you." They said: "How can he exercise authority over us when we arebetter fitted than he to exercise authority, and he is not even gifted,with wealth in abundance?" He said: "Allah hath Chosen him above you, andhath gifted him abundantly with knowledge and bodily prowess: Allah GrantethHis authority to whom He pleaseth. Allah careth for all, and He knoweth allthings."
2/248 And (further) their Prophet said to them: "A Sign of hisauthority is that there shall come to you the Ark of the covenant, with (anassurance) therein of security from your Lord, and the relics left by thefamily of Moses and the family of Aaron, carried by angels. In this is asymbol for you if ye indeed have faith."
2/249 When Talut set forth with the armies, he said: "Allah will testyou at the stream: if any drinks of its water, He goes not with my army:Only those who taste not of it go with me: A mere sip out of the hand isexcused." but they all drank of it, except a few. When they crossed theriver,- He and the faithful ones with him,- they said: "This day We cannotcope with Goliath and his forces." but those who were convinced that theymust meet Allah, said: "How oft, by Allah's will, Hath a small force vanquisheda big one? Allah is with those who steadfastly persevere."
2/250 When they advanced to meet Goliath and his forces, theyprayed: "Our Lord! Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Helpus against those that reject faith."
2/251 By Allah's will they routed them; and David slew Goliath; andAllah gave him power and wisdom and taught him whatever (else) He willed. Anddid not Allah Check one set of people by means of another, the earth wouldindeed be full of mischief: But Allah is full of bounty to all the worlds.
2/252 These are the Signs of Allah: we rehearse them to thee in truth:verily Thou art one of the messengers.
2/253 Those messengers We endowed with gifts, some above others: Toone of them Allah spoke; others He raised to degrees (of honour); to Jesusthe son of Mary We gave clear (Signs), and strengthened him with the holyspirit. If Allah had so willed, succeeding generations would not have foughtamong each other, after clear (Signs) had come to them, but they (chose) towrangle, some believing and others rejecting. If Allah had so willed, theywould not have fought each other; but Allah Fulfilleth His plan.
2/254 O ye who believe! Spend out of (the bounties) We have providedfor you, before the Day comes when no bargaining (Will avail), norfriendship nor intercession. Those who reject Faith they are thewrong-doers.
2/255 Allah! There is no god but He,-the Living, the Self-subsisting,Eternal. No slumber can seize Him nor sleep. His are all things in theheavens and on earth. Who is there can intercede in His presence except asHe permitteth? He knoweth what (appeareth to His creatures as) before orafter or behind them. Nor shall they compass aught of His knowledge exceptas He willeth. His Throne doth extend over the heavens and the earth, andHe feeleth no fatigue in guarding and preserving them for He is the MostHigh, the Supreme (in glory).
2/256 Let there be no compulsion in religion: Truth stands out clearfrom Error: whoever rejects evil and believes in Allah hath grasped the mosttrustworthy hand-hold, that never breaks. And Allah heareth and knoweth allthings.
2/257 Allah is the Protector of those who have faith: from the depthsof darkness He will lead them forth into light. Of those who reject faiththe patrons are the evil ones: from light they will lead them forth intothe depths of darkness. They will be companions of the fire, to dwelltherein (For ever).
2/258 Hast thou not Turned thy vision to one who disputed withAbraham About his Lord, because Allah had granted him power? Abraham said:"My Lord is He Who Giveth life and death." He said: "I give life anddeath". Said Abraham: "But it is Allah that causeth the sun to rise from theeast: Do thou then cause him to rise from the West." Thus was he confoundedwho (in arrogance) rejected faith. Nor doth Allah Give guidance to a peopleunjust.
2/259 Or (take) the similitude of one who passed by a hamlet, all inruins to its roofs. He said: "Oh! how shall Allah bring it (ever) to life,after (this) its death?" but Allah caused him to die for a hundred years,then raised him up (again). He said: "How long didst thou tarry (thus)?" Hesaid: (Perhaps) a day or part of a day." He said: "Nay, thou hast tarriedthus a hundred years; but look at thy food and thy drink; they show nosigns of age; and look at thy donkey: And that We may make of thee a signunto the people, Look further at the bones, how We bring them together andclothe them with flesh." When this was shown clearly to him, he said: "Iknow that Allah hath power over all things."
2/260 When Abraham said: "Show me, Lord, how You will raise the dead, "He replied: "Have you no faith?"  He said "Yes, but just to reassuremy heart."  Allah said, "Take four birds, draw them to you, and cut theirbodies to pieces.  Scatter them over the mountain-tops, then call themback.  They will come swiftly to you.  Know that Allah is Mighty, Wise."
2/261 The parable of those who spend their substance in the way ofAllah is that of a grain of corn: it groweth seven ears, and each ear Hath ahundred grains. Allah giveth manifold increase to whom He pleaseth: And Allahcareth for all and He knoweth all things.
2/262 Those who spend their substance in the cause of Allah, andfollow not up their gifts with reminders of their generosity or withinjury,-for them their reward is with their Lord: on them shall be no fear,nor shall they grieve.
2/263 Kind words and the covering of faults are better than charityfollowed by injury. Allah is free of all wants, and He is Most-Forbearing.
2/264 O ye who believe! cancel not your charity by reminders of yourgenerosity or by injury,- like those who spend their substance to be seenof men, but believe neither in Allah nor in the Last Day. They are in parablelike a hard, barren rock, on which is a little soil: on it falls heavyrain, which leaves it (Just) a bare stone. They will be able to do nothingwith aught they have earned. And Allah guideth not those who reject faith.
2/265 And the likeness of those who spend their substance, seekingto please Allah and to strengthen their souls, is as a garden, high andfertile: heavy rain falls on it but makes it yield a double increase ofharvest, and if it receives not Heavy rain, light moisture sufficeth it.Allah seeth well whatever ye do.
2/266 Does any of you wish that he should have a garden withdate-palms and vines and streams flowing underneath, and all kinds offruit, while he is stricken with old age, and his children are not strong(enough to look after themselves)- that it should be caught in a whirlwind,with fire therein, and be burnt up? Thus doth Allah make clear to you (His)Signs; that ye may consider.
2/267 O ye who believe! Give of the good things which ye have(honourably) earned, and of the fruits of the earth which We have producedfor you, and do not even aim at getting anything which is bad, in orderthat out of it ye may give away something, when ye yourselves would notreceive it except with closed eyes. And know that Allah is Free of all wants,and worthy of all praise.
2/268 The Evil one threatens you with poverty and bids you toconduct unseemly. Allah promiseth you His forgiveness and bounties. And Allahcareth for all and He knoweth all things.
2/269 He granteth wisdom to whom He pleaseth; and he to whom wisdomis granted receiveth indeed a benefit overflowing; but none will grasp theMessage but men of understanding.
2/270 And whatever ye spend in charity or devotion, be sure Allahknows it all. But the wrong-doers have no helpers.
2/271 If ye disclose (acts of) charity, even so it is well, but ifye conceal them, and make them reach those (really) in need, that is bestfor you: It will remove from you some of your (stains of) evil. And Allah iswell acquainted with what ye do.
2/272 It is not required of thee (O Messenger), to set them on theright path, but Allah sets on the right path whom He pleaseth. Whatever ofgood ye give benefits your own souls, and ye shall only do so seeking the"Face" of Allah. Whatever good ye give, shall be rendered back to you, and yeshall not Be dealt with unjustly.
2/273 (Charity is) for those in need, who, in Allah's cause arerestricted (from travel), and cannot move about in the land, seeking (Fortrade or work): the ignorant man thinks, because of their modesty, thatthey are free from want. Thou shalt know them by their (Unfailing) mark:They beg not importunately from all the sundry. And whatever of good yegive, be assured Allah knoweth it well.
2/274 Those who (in charity) spend of their goods by night and byday, in secret and in public, have their reward with their Lord: on themshall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/275 Those who devour usury will not stand except as stand one whomthe Evil one by his touch Hath driven to madness. That is because they say:"Trade is like usury," but Allah hath permitted trade and forbidden usury.Those who after receiving direction from their Lord, desist, shall bepardoned for the past; their case is for Allah (to judge); but those whorepeat (The offence) are companions of the Fire: They will abide therein(for ever).
2/276 Allah will deprive usury of all blessing, but will give increasefor deeds of charity: For He loveth not creatures ungrateful and wicked.
2/277 Those who believe, and do deeds of righteousness, andestablish regular prayers and regular charity, will have their reward withtheir Lord: on them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/278 O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and give up what remains of yourdemand for usury, if ye are indeed believers.
2/279 If ye do it not, Take notice of war from Allah and His Messenger:But if ye turn back, ye shall have your capital sums: Deal not unjustly,and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly.
2/280 If the debtor is in a difficulty, grant him time Till it iseasy for him to repay. But if ye remit it by way of charity, that is bestfor you if ye only knew.
2/281 And fear the Day when ye shall be brought back to Allah. Thenshall every soul be paid what it earned, and none shall be dealt withunjustly.
2/282 O ye who believe!When ye deal with each other,intransactions involving future obligations in a fixed period of time,reducethem to writing Let a scribe write down faithfully as between the parties:let not the scribe refuse to write:as Allah Has taught him,so let himwrite. Let him who incurs the liability dictate,but let him fear His LordAllah,and not diminish aught of what he owes.If they party liable ismentally deficient,or weak,or unable Himself to dictate,Let his guardiandictate faithfully,and get two witnesses,out of your own men,and ifthere are not two men,then a man and two women,such as ye choose, forwitnesses,so that if one of them errs,the other can remind her.Thewitnesses should not refuse when they are called on(For evidence).Disdainnot to reduce to writing(your contract)for a future period,whether it besmall or big:it is juster in the sight of Allah,More suitable as evidence,and more convenient to prevent doubts among yourselves but if it be a transaction which ye carry out on the spot among yourselves,there is noblame on you if ye reduce it not to writing.But take witness whenever yemake a commercial contract;and let neither scribe nor witness suffer harm.If ye do(such harm),it would be wickedness in you.So fear Allah;For it isGood that teaches you.And Allah is well acquainted with all things.If yeare on a journey,and cannot find a scribe,a pledge with possession(mayserve the purpose).And if one of you deposits a thing on trust withanother,let the trustee(faithfully)discharge his trust,and let him Fearhis Lord conceal not evidence;for whoever conceals it,-his heart istainted with sin.And Allah knoweth all that ye do.
2/283 If ye are on a journey, and cannot find a scribe, a pledgewith possession (may serve the purpose). And if one of you deposits a thingon trust with another, Let the trustee (Faithfully) discharge His trust,and let him fear his Lord. Conceal not evidence; for whoever conceals it,-His heart is tainted with sin. And Allah Knoweth all that ye do.
2/284 To Allah belongeth all that is in the heavens and on earth.Whether ye show what is in your minds or conceal it, Allah Calleth you toaccount for it. He forgiveth whom He pleaseth, and punisheth whom Hepleaseth, for Allah hath power over all things.
2/285 The Messenger believeth in what hath been revealed to him fromhis Lord, as do the men of faith. Each one (of them) believeth in Allah, Hisangels, His books, and His messengers. "We make no distinction (they say)between one and another of His messengers." And they say: "We hear, and weobey: (We seek) Thy forgiveness, our Lord, and to Thee is the end of alljourneys."
2/286 On no soul doth Allah Place a burden greater than it can bear.It gets every good that it earns, and it suffers every ill that it earns.(Pray:) "Our Lord! Condemn us not if we forget or fall into error; ourLord! Lay not on us a burden Like that which Thou didst lay on those beforeus; Our Lord! Lay not on us a burden greater than we have strength to bear.Blot out our sins, and grant us forgiveness. Have mercy on us. Thou art ourProtector; Help us against those who stand against faith."
