45/1 Ha-Mim.
45/2 The revelation of the Book is from Allah the Exalted in Power,Full of Wisdom.
45/3 Verily in the heavens and the earth, are Signs for those whobelieve.
45/4 And in the creation of yourselves and the fact that animalsare scattered (through the earth), are Signs for those of assured Faith.
45/5 And in the alternation of Night and Day, and the fact that Allahsends down Sustenance from the sky, and revives therewith  the earth afterits death, and in the change of the winds,- are Signs for those that arewise.
45/6 Such are the Signs of Allah, which We rehearse to thee in Truth;then in what exposition will they believe after (rejecting) Allah and HisSigns?
45/7 Woe to each sinful dealer in Falsehoods:
45/8 He hears the Signs of Allah rehearsed to him, yet is obstinateand lofty, as if he had not heard them: then announce to him a PenaltyGrievous!
45/9 And when he learns something of Our Signs, he takes them injest: for such there will be a humiliating Penalty.
45/10 In front of them is Hell: and of no profit to them is anythingthey may have earned, nor any protectors they may have taken to themselvesbesides Allah: for them is a tremendous Penalty.
45/11 This is (true) Guidance and for those who reject the Signs oftheir Lord, is a grievous Penalty of abomination.
45/12 It is Allah Who has subjected the sea to you, that ships maysail through it by His command, that ye may seek of his Bounty, and that yemay be grateful.
45/13 And He has subjected to you, as from Him, all that is in theheavens and on earth: Behold, in that are Signs indeed for those whoreflect.
45/14 Tell those who believe, to forgive those who do not lookforward to the Days of Allah: It is for Him to recompense (for good or ill)each People according to what they have earned.
45/15 If any one does a righteous deed, it ensures to the benefit ofhis own soul; if he does evil, it works against (his own soul). In the endwill ye (all) be brought back to your Lord.
45/16 We did aforetime grant to the Children of Israel the Book thePower of Command, and Prophethood; We gave them, for Sustenance, thingsgood and pure; and We favoured them above the nations.
45/17 And We granted them Clear Signs in affairs (of Religion): itwas only after knowledge had been granted to them that they fell intoschisms, through insolent envy among themselves. Verily thy Lord will judgebetween them on the Day of Judgment as to those matters in which they setup differences.
45/18 Then We put thee on the (right) Way of Religion: so followthou that (Way), and follow not the desires of those who know not.
45/19 They will be of no use to thee in the sight of Allah: it is onlyWrong-doers (that stand as) protectors, one to another: but Allah is theProtector of the Righteous.
45/20 These are clear evidences to men and a Guidance and Mercy tothose of assured Faith.
45/21 What! Do those who seek after evil ways think that We shallhold them equal with those who believe and do righteous deeds,- that equalwill be their life and their death? Ill is the judgment that they make.
45/22 Allah created the heavens and the earth for just ends, and inorder that each soul may find the recompense of what it has earned, andnone of them be wronged.
45/23 Then seest thou such a one as takes as his god his own vaindesire? Allah has, knowing (him as such), left him astray, and sealed hishearing and his heart (and understanding), and put a cover on his sight.Who, then, will guide him after Allah (has withdrawn Guidance)? Will ye notthen receive admonition?
45/24 And they say: "What is there but our life in this world? Weshall die and we live, and nothing but time can destroy us." But of thatthey have no knowledge: they merely conjecture:
45/25 And when Our Clear Signs are rehearsed to them their argumentis nothing but this: They say, "Bring (back) our forefathers, if what yesay is true!"
45/26 Say: "It is Allah Who gives you life, then gives you death; thenHe will gather you together for the Day of Judgment about which there is nodoubt": But most men do not understand.
45/27 To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth, andthe Day that the Hour of Judgment is established,- that Day will thedealers in Falsehood perish!
45/28 And thou wilt see every sect bowing the knee: Every sect willbe called to its Record: "This Day shall ye be recompensed for all that yedid!
45/29 "This Our Record speaks about you with truth: For We were wontto put on Record all that ye did."
45/30 Then, as to those who believed and did righteous deeds, theirLord will admit them to His Mercy that will be the achievement for all tosee.
45/31 But as to those who rejected Allah, (to them will be said):"Were not Our Signs rehearsed to you? But ye were arrogant, and were apeople given to sin!
45/32 "And when it was said that the promise of Allah was true, andthat the Hour- there was no doubt about its (coming), ye used to say, 'Weknow not what is the hour: we only think it is an idea, and we have no firmassurance.'"
45/33 Then will appear to them the evil (fruits) of what they did,and they will be completely encircled by that which they used to mock at!
45/34 It will also be said: "This Day We will forget you as yeforgot the meeting of this Day of yours! and your abode is the Fire, and nohelpers have ye!
45/35 "This, because ye used to take the Signs of Allah in jest, andthe life of the world deceived you:" (From) that Day, therefore, they shallnot be taken out thence, nor shall they be received into Grace.
45/36 Then Praise be to Allah, Lord of the heavens and Lord of theearth,- Lord and Cherisher of all the Worlds!
45/37 To Him be glory throughout the heavens and the earth: and Heis Exalted in Power, Full of Wisdom!
