72/1 Say: It has been revealed to me that a company of Jinnslistened (to the Qur'an). They said, 'We have really heard a wonderfulRecital!
72/2 'It gives guidance to the Right, and we have believed therein:we shall not join (in worship) any (gods) with our Lord.
72/3 'And Exalted is the Majesty of our Lord: He has taken neithera wife nor a son.
72/4 'There were some foolish ones among us, who used to utterextravagant lies against Allah;
72/5 'But we do think that no man or spirit should say aught thatuntrue against Allah.
72/6 'True, there were persons among mankind who took shelter withpersons among the Jinns, but they increased them in folly.
72/7 'And they (came to) think as ye thought, that Allah would notraise up any one (to Judgment).
72/8 'And we pried into the secrets of heaven; but we found itfilled with stern guards and flaming fires.
72/9 'We used, indeed, to sit there in (hidden) stations, to(steal) a hearing; but any who listen now will find a flaming fire watchinghim in ambush.
72/10 'And we understand not whether ill is intended to those onearth, or whether their Lord (really) intends to guide them to rightconduct.
72/11 'There are among us some that are righteous, and some thecontrary: we follow divergent paths.
72/12 'But we think that we can by no means frustrate Allah throughoutthe earth, nor can we frustrate Him by flight.
72/13 'And as for us, since we have listened to the Guidance, wehave accepted it: and any who believes in his Lord has no fear, either of ashort (account) or of any injustice.
72/14 'Amongst us are some that submit their wills (to Allah), andsome that swerve from justice. Now those who submit their wills - they havesought out (the path) of right conduct:
72/15 'But those who swerve,- they are (but) fuel for Hell-fire'-
72/16 (And Allah's Message is): "If they (the Pagans) had (only)remained on the (right) Way, We should certainly have bestowed on them Rainin abundance.
72/17 "That We might try them by that (means). But if any turns awayfrom the remembrance of his Lord, He will cause him to undergo a severePenalty.
72/18 "And the places of worship are for Allah (alone): So invoke notany one along with Allah;
72/19 "Yet when the Devotee of Allah stands forth to invoke Him, theyjust make round him a dense crowd."
72/20 Say: "I do no more than invoke my Lord, and I join not withHim any (false god)."
72/21 Say: "It is not in my power to cause you harm, or to bring youto right conduct."
72/22 Say: "No one can deliver me from Allah (If I were to disobeyHim), nor should I find refuge except in Him,
72/23 "Unless I proclaim what I receive from Allah and His Messages:for any that disobey Allah and His Messenger,- for them is Hell: they shalldwell therein for ever."
72/24 At length, when they see (with their own eyes) that which theyare promised,- then will they know who it is that is weakest in (his)helper and least important in point of numbers.
72/25 Say: "I know not whether the (Punishment) which ye arepromised is near, or whether my Lord will appoint for it a distant term.
72/26 "He (alone) knows the Unseen, nor does He make any oneacquainted with His Mysteries,-
72/27 "Except a messenger whom He has chosen: and then He makes aband of watchers march before him and behind him,
72/28 "That He may know that they have (truly) brought and deliveredthe Messages of their Lord: and He surrounds (all the mysteries) that arewith them, and takes account of every single thing."
