62/1 Whatever is in the heavens and on earth, doth declare thePraises and Glory of Allah,- the Sovereign, the Holy One, the Exalted inMight, the Wise.
62/2 It is He Who has sent amongst the Unlettered a messenger fromamong themselves, to rehearse to them His Signs, to sanctify them, and toinstruct them in Scripture and Wisdom,- although they had been, before, inmanifest error;-
62/3 As well as (to confer all these benefits upon) others of them,who have not already joined them: And He is exalted in Might, Wise.
62/4 Such is the Bounty of Allah, which He bestows on whom He will:and Allah is the Lord of the highest bounty.
62/5 The similitude of those who were charged with the (obligationsof the) Mosaic Law, but who subsequently failed in those (obligations), isthat of a donkey which carries huge tomes (but understands them not). Evilis the similitude of people who falsify the Signs of Allah: and Allah guidesnot people who do wrong.
62/6 Say: "O ye that stand on Judaism! If ye think that ye arefriends to Allah, to the exclusion of (other) men, then express your desirefor Death, if ye are truthful!"
62/7 But never will they express their desire (for Death), becauseof the (deeds) their hands have sent on before them! and Allah knows wellthose that do wrong!
62/8 Say: "The Death from which ye flee will truly overtake you:then will ye be sent back to the Knower of things secret and open: and Hewill tell you (the truth of) the things that ye did!"
62/9 O ye who believe! When the call is proclaimed to prayer onFriday (the Day of Assembly), hasten earnestly to the Remembrance of Allah,and leave off business (and traffic): That is best for you if ye but knew!
62/10 And when the Prayer is finished, then may ye disperse throughthe land, and seek of the Bounty of Allah: and celebrate the Praises of Allahoften (and without stint): that ye may prosper.
62/11 But when they see some bargain or some amusement, theydisperse headlong to it, and leave thee standing. Say: "The (blessing) fromthe Presence of Allah is better than any amusement or bargain! and Allah is theBest to provide (for all needs)."
