6/1 Praise be Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth, and madethe darkness and the light. Yet those who reject Faith hold (others) asequal, with their Guardian-Lord.
6/2 He it is created you from clay, and then decreed a statedterm (for you). And there is in His presence another determined term; yetye doubt within yourselves!
6/3 And He is Allah in the heavens and on earth. He knoweth what yehide, and what ye reveal, and He knoweth the (recompense) which ye earn (byyour deeds).
6/4 But never did a single one of the signs of their Lord reachthem, but they turned away therefrom.
6/5 And now they reject the truth when it reaches them: but soonshall they learn the reality of what they used to mock at.
6/6 See they not how many of those before them We did destroy?-generations We had established on the earth, in strength such as We havenot given to you - for whom We poured out rain from the skies in abundance,and gave (fertile) streams flowing beneath their (feet): yet for their sinsWe destroyed them, and raised in their wake fresh generations (to succeedthem).
6/7 If We had sent unto thee a written (message) on parchment, sothat they could touch it with their hands, the Unbelievers would have beensure to say: "This is nothing but obvious magic!"
6/8 They say: "Why is not an angel sent down to him?" If we didsend down an angel, the matter would be settled at once, and no respitewould be granted them.
6/9 If We had made it an angel, We should have sent him as a man,and We should certainly have caused them confusion in a matter which theyhave already covered with confusion.
6/10 Mocked were (many) messengers before thee; but their scofferswere hemmed in by the thing that they mocked.
6/11 Say: "Travel through the earth and see what was the end ofthose who rejected Truth."
6/12 Say: "To whom belongeth all that is in the heavens and onearth?" Say: "To Allah. He hath inscribed for Himself (the rule of) Mercy.That He will gather you together for the Day of Judgment, there is no doubtwhatever. It is they who have lost their own souls, that will not believe.
6/13 To him belongeth all that dwelleth (or lurketh) in the nightand the day.  For he is the one who heareth and knoweth all things."
6/14 Say: "Shall I take for my protector any other than Allah, theMaker of the heavens and the earth? And He it is that feedeth but is notfed." Say: "Nay! but I am commanded to be the first of those who  bow toAllah (in Islam), and be not thou of the company of those who join gods withAllah."
6/15 Say: "I would, if I disobeyed my Lord, indeed have fear of thepenalty of a Mighty Day.
6/16 "On that day, if the penalty is averted from any, it is due toAllah's mercy; And that would be (Salvation), the obvious fulfilment of alldesire.
6/17 "If Allah touch thee with affliction, none can remove it but He;if He touch thee with happiness, He hath power over all things.
6/18 "He is the irresistible, (watching) from above over Hisworshippers; and He is the Wise, acquainted with all things."
6/19 Say: "What thing is most weighty in evidence?" Say: "Allah iswitness between me and you; This Qur'an hath been revealed to me byinspiration, that I may warn you and all whom it reaches. Can ye possiblybear witness that besides Allah there is another Allah?" Say: "Nay! I cannotbear witness!" Say: "But in truth He is the one Allah, and I truly aminnocent of (your blasphemy of) joining others with Him."
6/20 Those to whom We have given the Book know this as they knowtheir own sons. Those who have lost their own souls refuse therefore tobelieve.
6/21 Who doth more wrong than he who inventeth a lie against Allah orrejecteth His signs?  But verily the wrong-doers never shall prosper.
6/22 One day shall We gather them all together: We shall say tothose who ascribed partners (to Us): "Where are the partners whom ye(invented and) talked about?"
6/23 There will then be (left) no subterfuge for them but to say:"By Allah our Lord, we were not those who joined gods with Allah."
6/24 Behold! how they lie against their own souls! But the (lie)which they invented will leave them in the lurch.
6/25 Of them there are some who (pretend to) listen to thee; butWe have thrown veils on their hearts, So they understand it not, anddeafness in their ears; if they saw every one of the signs, not they willbelieve in them; in so much that when they come to thee, they (but) disputewith thee; the Unbelievers say: "These are nothing but tales of theancients."
6/26 Others they keep away from it, and themselves they keep away;but they only destroy their own souls, and they perceive it not.
6/27 If thou couldst but see when they are confronted with theFire! They will say: "Would that we were but sent back! Then would we notreject the signs of our Lord, but would be amongst those who believe!"
6/28 Yea, in their own (eyes) will become manifest what before theyconcealed. But if they were returned, they would certainly relapse to thethings they were forbidden, for they are indeed liars.
6/29 And they (sometimes) say: "There is nothing except our life onthis earth, and never shall we be raised up again."
6/30 If thou couldst but see when they are confronted with theirLord! He will say: "Is not this the truth?" They will say: "Yea, by ourLord!" He will say: "Taste ye then the penalty, because ye rejectedFaith."
6/31 Lost indeed are they who treat it as a falsehood that theymust meet Allah,- until on a sudden the hour is on them, and they say: "Ah!woe unto us that we took no thought of it"; for they bear their burdens ontheir backs, and evil indeed are the burdens that they bear?
6/32 What is the life of this world but play and amusement? Butbest is the home in the hereafter, for those who are righteous. Will ye notthen understand?
6/33 We know indeed the grief which their words do cause thee: Itis not thee they reject: it is the signs of Allah, which the wicked contemn.
6/34 Rejected were the messengers before thee: with patience andconstancy they bore their rejection and their wrongs, until Our aid didreach them: there is none that can alter the words (and decrees) of Allah.Already hast thou received some account of those messengers.
6/35 If their spurning is hard on thy mind, yet if thou wert ableto seek a tunnel in the ground or a ladder to the skies and bring them asign,- (what good?). If it were Allah's will, He could gather them togetherunto true guidance: so be not thou amongst those who are swayed byignorance (and impatience)!
6/36 Those who listen (in truth), be sure, will accept: as to thedead, Allah will raise them up; then will they be turned unto Him.
6/37 They say: "Why is not a sign sent down to him from his Lord?"Say: "Allah hath certainly power to send down a sign: but most of themunderstand not.
6/38 There is not an animal (that lives) on the earth, nor a beingthat flies on its wings, but (forms part of) communities like you. Nothinghave we omitted from the Book, and they (all) shall be gathered to theirLord in the end.
6/39 Those who reject our signs are deaf and dumb,- in the midst ofdarkness profound: whom Allah willeth, He leaveth to wander: whom He willeth,He placeth on the way that is straight.
6/40 Say: "Think ye to yourselves, if there come upon you the wrathof Allah, or the Hour (that ye dread), would ye then call upon other thanAllah?- (reply) if ye are truthful!
6/41 "Nay,- On Him would ye call, and if it be His will, He wouldremove (the distress) which occasioned your call upon Him, and ye wouldforget (the false gods) which ye join with Him!"
6/42 Before thee We sent (messengers) to many nations, and Weafflicted the nations with suffering and adversity, that they might learnhumility.
6/43 When the suffering reached them from us, why then did they notlearn humility? On the contrary their hearts became hardened, and Satanmade their (sinful) acts seem alluring to them.
6/44 But when they forgot the warning they had received, We openedto them the gates of all (good) things, until, in the midst of theirenjoyment of Our gifts, on a sudden, We called them to account, when lo!they were plunged in despair!
6/45 Of the wrong-doers the last remnant was cut off. Praise be toAllah, the Cherisher of the worlds.
6/46 Say: "Think ye, if Allah took away your hearing and your sight,and sealed up your hearts, who - a god other than Allah - could restore themto you?" See how We explain the signs by various (symbols); yet they turnaside.
6/47 Say: "Think ye, if the punishment of Allah comes to you, whethersuddenly or openly, will any be destroyed except those who do wrong?
6/48 We send the messengers only to give good news and to warn: sothose who believe and mend (their lives),- upon them shall be no fear, norshall they grieve.
6/49 But those who reject our signs,- them shall punishment touch,for that they ceased not from transgressing.
6/50 Say: "I tell you not that with me are the treasures of Allah,nor do I know what is hidden, nor do I tell you I am an angel.  I butfollow what is revealed to me." Say: "can the blind be held equal to theseeing?" Will ye then consider not?
6/51 Give this warning to those in whose (hearts) is the fear thatthey will be brought (to judgment) before their Lord: except for Him theywill have no protector nor intercessor: that they may guard (againstevil).
6/52 Send not away those who call on their Lord morning andevening, seeking His face. In naught art thou accountable for them, and innaught are they accountable for thee, that thou shouldst turn them away,and thus be (one) of the unjust.
6/53 Thus did We try some of them by comparison with others, thatthey should say: "Is it these then that Allah hath favoured from amongst us?"Doth not Allah know best those who are grateful?
6/54 When those come to thee who believe in Our signs, Say: "Peacebe on you: Your Lord hath inscribed for Himself (the rule of) mercy:verily, if any of you did evil in ignorance, and thereafter repented, andamend (his conduct), lo! He is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
6/55 Thus do We explain the signs in detail: that the way of thesinners may be shown up.
6/56 Say: "I am forbidden to worship those - others than Allah - whomye call upon." Say: "I will not follow your wain desires: If I did, I wouldstray from the path, and be not of the company of those who receiveguidance."
6/57 Say: "For me, I (work) on a clear sign from my Lord, but yereject Him. What ye would see hastened, is not in my power. The commandrests with none but Allah: He declares the truth, and He is the best ofjudges."
6/58 Say: "If what ye would see hastened were in my power, thematter would be settled at once between you and me. But Allah knoweth bestthose who do wrong."
6/59 With Him are the keys of the unseen, the treasures that noneknoweth but He. He knoweth whatever there is on the earth and in the sea.Not a leaf doth fall but with His knowledge: there is not a grain in thedarkness (or depths) of the earth, nor anything fresh or dry (green orwithered), but is (inscribed) in a record clear (to those who can read).
6/60 It is He who doth take your souls by night, and hath knowledgeof all that ye have done by day: by day doth He raise you up again; that aterm appointed be fulfilled; In the end unto Him will be your return; thenwill He show you the truth of all that ye did.
6/61 He is the irresistible, (watching) from above over Hisworshippers, and He sets guardians over you. At length, when deathapproaches one of you, Our angels take his soul, and they never fail intheir duty.
6/62 Then are men returned unto Allah, their protector, the (only)reality: Is not His the command? and He is the swiftest in taking account.
6/63 Say: "Who is it that delivereth you from the dark recesses ofland and sea, when ye call upon Him in humility and silent terror: 'If Heonly delivers us from these (dangers), (we vow) we shall truly show ourgratitude'?"
6/64 Say "It is Allah that delivereth you from these and all (other)distresses: and yet ye worship false gods!"
6/65 Say: "He hath power to send calamities on you, from above andbelow, or to cover you with confusion in party strife, giving you a tasteof mutual vengeance - each from the other." See how We explain the signs byvarious (symbols); that they may understand.
6/66 But thy people reject this, though it is the truth. Say: "Notmine is the responsibility for arranging your affairs;
6/67 For every message is a limit of time, and soon shall ye knowit."
6/68 When thou seest men engaged in vain discourse about Our signs,turn away from them unless they turn to a different theme. If Satan evermakes thee forget, then after recollection, sit not thou in the company ofthose who do wrong.
6/69 On their account no responsibility falls on the righteous, but(their duty) is to remind them, that they may (learn to) fear Allah.
6/70 Leave alone those who take their religion to be mere play andamusement, and are deceived by the life of this world. But proclaim (tothem) this (truth): that every soul delivers itself to ruin by its ownacts: it will find for itself no protector or intercessor except Allah: if itoffered every ransom, (or reparation), none will be accepted: such is (theend of) those who deliver themselves to ruin by their own acts: they willhave for drink (only) boiling water, and for punishment, one most grievous:for they persisted in rejecting Allah.
6/71 Say: "Shall we indeed call on others besides Allah,- things thatcan do us neither good nor harm,- and turn on our heels after receivingguidance from Allah? - like one whom the evil ones have made into a fool,wandering bewildered through the earth, his friends calling, come to us',(vainly) guiding him to the path." Say: "Allah's guidance is the (only)guidance, and we have been directed to submit ourselves to the Lord of theworlds;-
6/72 "To establish regular prayers and to fear Allah: for it is toHim that we shall be gathered together."
6/73 It is He who created the heavens and the earth in true(proportions): the day He saith, "Be," behold! it is. His word is thetruth. His will be the dominion the day the trumpet will be blown. Heknoweth the unseen as well as that which is open. For He is the Wise, wellacquainted (with all things).
6/74 Lo! Abraham said to his father Azar: "Takest thou idols forgods? For I see thee and thy people in manifest error."
6/75 So also did We show Abraham the power and the laws of theheavens and the earth, that he might (with understanding) have certitude.
6/76 When the night covered him over, He saw a star: He said: "Thisis my Lord." But when it set, He said: "I love not those that set."
6/77 When he saw the moon rising in splendour, he said: "This is myLord." But when the moon set, He said: "unless my Lord guide me, I shallsurely be among those who go astray."
6/78 When he saw the sun rising in splendour, he said: "This is myLord; this is the greatest (of all)." But when the sun set, he said: "O mypeople! I am indeed free from your (guilt) of giving partners to Allah.
6/79 "For me, I have set my face, firmly and truly, towards Him Whocreated the heavens and the earth, and never shall I give partners toAllah."
6/80 His people disputed with him. He said: "(Come) ye to disputewith me, about Allah, when He (Himself) hath guided me? I fear not (thebeings) ye associate with Allah: Unless my Lord willeth, (nothing canhappen).  My Lord comprehendeth in His knowledge all things. Will ye not(yourselves) be admonished?
6/81 "How should I fear (the beings) ye associate with Allah, when yefear not to give partners to Allah without any warrant having been given toyou? Which of (us) two parties hath more right to security? (tell me) if yeknow.
6/82 "It is those who believe and confuse not their beliefs withwrong - that are (truly) in security, for they are on (right) guidance."
6/83 That was the reasoning about Us, which We gave to Abraham (touse) against his people: We raise whom We will, degree after degree: forthy Lord is full of wisdom and knowledge.
6/84 We gave him Isaac and Jacob: all (three) guided: and beforehim, We guided Noah, and among his progeny, David, Solomon, Job, Joseph,Moses, and Aaron: thus do We reward those who do good:
6/85 And Zakariya and John, and Jesus and Elias: all in the ranksof the righteous:
6/86 And Isma'il and Elisha, and Jonas, and Lot: and to all We gavefavour above the nations:
6/87 (To them) and to their fathers, and progeny and brethren: Wechose them, and we guided them to a straight way.
6/88 This is the guidance of Allah: He giveth that guidance to whomHe pleaseth, of His worshippers.  If they were to join other gods with Him,all that they did would be vain for them.
6/89 These were the men to whom We gave the Book, and authority,and prophethood: if these (their descendants) reject them, Behold! We shallentrust their charge to a new people who reject them not.
6/90 Those were the (prophets) who received Allah's guidance: Copythe guidance they received; Say: "No reward for this do I ask of you: Thisis no less than a message for the nations."
6/91 No just estimate of Allah do they make when they say: "Nothingdoth Allah send down to man (by way of revelation)" Say: "Who then sent downthe Book which Moses brought?- a light and guidance to man: But ye make itinto (separate) sheets for show, while ye conceal much (of its contents):therein were ye taught that which ye knew not- neither ye nor yourfathers." Say: "Allah (sent it down)": Then leave them to plunge in vaindiscourse and trifling.
6/92 And this is a Book which We have sent down, bringingblessings, and confirming (the revelations) which came before it: that thoumayest warn the mother of cities and all around her. Those who believe inthe Hereafter believe in this (Book), and they are constant in guardingtheir prayers.
6/93 Who can be more wicked than one who inventeth a lie againstAllah, or saith, "I have received inspiration," when he hath received none,or (again) who saith, "I can reveal the like of what Allah hath revealed"? Ifthou couldst but see how the wicked (do fare) in the flood of confusion atdeath! - the angels stretch forth their hands, (saying),"Yield up yoursouls: this day shall ye receive your reward,- a penalty of shame, for thatye used to tell lies against Allah, and scornfully to reject of His signs!"
6/94 "And behold! ye come to us bare and alone as We created youfor the first time: ye have left behind you all (the favours) which Webestowed on you: We see not with you your intercessors whom ye thought tobe partners in your affairs: so now all relations between you have been cutoff, and your (pet) fancies have left you in the lurch!"
6/95 It is Allah Who causeth the seed-grain and the date-stone tosplit and sprout. He causeth the living to issue from the dead, and He isthe one to cause the dead to issue from the living. That is Allah: then howare ye deluded away from the truth?
6/96 He it is that cleaveth the day-break (from the dark): He makesthe night for rest and tranquillity, and the sun and moon for the reckoning(of time): Such is the judgment and ordering of (Him), the Exalted inPower, the Omniscient.
6/97 It is He Who maketh the stars (as beacons) for you, that yemay guide yourselves, with their help, through the dark spaces of land andsea: We detail Our signs for people who know.
6/98 It is He Who hath produced you from a single person: here is aplace of sojourn and a place of departure: We detail Our signs for peoplewho understand.
6/99 It is He Who sendeth down rain from the skies: with it Weproduce vegetation of all kinds: from some We produce green (crops), out ofwhich We produce grain, heaped up (at harvest); out of the date-palm andits sheaths (or spathes) (come) clusters of dates hanging low and near: and(then there are) gardens of grapes, and olives, and pomegranates, eachsimilar (in kind) yet different (in variety): when they begin to bearfruit, feast your eyes with the fruit and the ripeness thereof. Behold! inthese things there are signs for people who believe.
6/100 Yet they make the Jinns equals with Allah, though Allah did createthe Jinns; and they falsely, having no knowledge, attribute to Him sons anddaughters. Praise and glory be to Him! (for He is) above what theyattribute to Him!
6/101 To Him is due the primal origin of the heavens and the earth:How can He have a son when He hath no consort? He created all things, andHe hath full knowledge of all things.
6/102 That is Allah, your Lord! there is no god but He, the Creator ofall things: then worship ye Him: and He hath power to dispose of allaffairs.
6/103 No vision can grasp Him, but His grasp is over all vision: Heis above all comprehension, yet is acquainted with all things.
6/104 "Now have come to you, from your Lord, proofs (to open youreyes): if any will see, it will be for (the good of) his own soul; if anywill be blind, it will be to his own (harm): I am not (here) to watch overyour doings."
6/105 Thus do we explain the signs by various (symbols): that theymay say, "Thou hast taught (us) diligently," and that We may make thematter clear to those who know.
6/106 Follow what thou art taught by inspiration from thy Lord:there is no god but He: and turn aside from those who join gods with Allah.
6/107 If it had been Allah's plan, they would not have taken falsegods: but We made thee not one to watch over their doings, nor art thou setover them to dispose of their affairs.
6/108 Revile not ye those whom they call upon besides Allah, lest theyout of spite revile Allah in their ignorance. Thus have We made alluring toeach people its own doings. In the end will they return to their Lord, andWe shall then tell them the truth of all that they did.
6/109 They swear their strongest oaths by Allah, that if a (special)sign came to them, by it they would believe. Say: "Certainly (all) signsare in the power of Allah: but what will make you (Muslims) realise that(even) if (special) signs came, they will not believe."?
6/110 We (too) shall turn to (confusion) their hearts and theireyes, even as they refused to believe in this in the first instance: Weshall leave them in their trespasses, to wander in distraction.
6/111 Even if We did send unto them angels, and the dead did speakunto them, and We gathered together all things before their very eyes, theyare not the ones to believe, unless it is in Allah's plan. But most of themignore (the truth).
6/112 Likewise did We make for every Messenger an enemy,- evil onesamong men and jinns, inspiring each other with flowery discourses by way ofdeception. If thy Lord had so planned, they would not have done it: soleave them and their inventions alone.
6/113 To such (deceit) let the hearts of those incline, who have nofaith in the hereafter: let them delight in it, and let them earn from itwhat they may.
6/114 Say: "Shall I seek for judge other than Allah? - when He it isWho hath sent unto you the Book, explained in detail." They know full well,to whom We have given the Book, that it hath been sent down from thy Lordin truth. Never be then of those who doubt.
6/115 The word of thy Lord doth find its fulfilment in truth and injustice: None can change His words: for He is the one who heareth andknoweth all.
6/116 Wert thou to follow the common run of those on earth, theywill lead thee away from the way of Allah. They follow nothing butconjecture: they do nothing but lie.
6/117 Thy Lord knoweth best who strayeth from His way: He knowethbest who they are that receive His guidance.
6/118 So eat of (meats) on which Allah's name hath been pronounced, ifye have faith in His signs.
6/119 Why should ye not eat of (meats) on which Allah's name hath beenpronounced, when He hath explained to you in detail what is forbidden toyou - except under compulsion of necessity? But many do mislead (men) bytheir appetites unchecked by knowledge. Thy Lord knoweth best those whotransgress.
6/120 Eschew all sin, open or secret: those who earn sin will getdue recompense for their "earnings."
6/121 Eat not of (meats) on which Allah's name hath not beenpronounced: That would be impiety. But the evil ones ever inspire theirfriends to contend with you if ye were to obey them, ye would indeed bePagans.
6/122 Can he who was dead, to whom We gave life, and a light wherebyhe can walk amongst men, be like him who is in the depths of darkness, fromwhich he can never come out? Thus to those without faith their own deedsseem pleasing.
6/123 Thus have We placed leaders in every town, its wicked men, toplot (and burrow) therein: but they only plot against their own souls, andthey perceive it not.
6/124 When there comes to them a sign (from Allah), They say: "Weshall not believe until we receive one (exactly) like those received byAllah's messengers." Allah knoweth best where (and how) to carry out His mission.Soon will the wicked be overtaken by humiliation before Allah, and a severepunishment, for all their plots.
6/125 Those whom Allah (in His plan) willeth to guide,- He openeththeir breast to Islam; those whom He willeth to leave straying,- He makeththeir breast close and constricted, as if they had to climb up to theskies: thus doth Allah (heap) the penalty on those who refuse to believe.
6/126 This is the way of thy Lord, leading straight: We havedetailed the signs for those who receive admonition.
6/127 For them will be a home of peace in the presence of theirLord: He will be their friend, because they practised (righteousness).
6/128 One day will He gather them all together, (and say): "O yeassembly of Jinns! Much (toll) did ye take of men." Their friends amongstmen will say: "Our Lord! we made profit from each other: but (alas!) wereached our term - which thou didst appoint for us." He will say: "The Firebe your dwelling-place: you will dwell therein for ever, except as Allahwilleth." for thy Lord is full of wisdom and knowledge.
6/129 Thus do we make the wrong-doers turn to each other, because ofwhat they earn.
6/130 "O ye assembly of Jinns and men! came there not unto youmessengers from amongst you, setting forth unto you My signs, and warning youof the meeting of this Day of yours?" They will say: "We bear witnessagainst ourselves." It was the life of this world that deceived them. Soagainst themselves will they bear witness that they rejected Faith.
6/131 (The messengers were sent) thus, for thy Lord would not destroyfor their wrong-doing men's habitations whilst their occupants wereunwarned.
6/132 To all are degrees (or ranks) according to their deeds: forthy Lord is not unmindful of anything that they do.
6/133 Thy Lord is self-sufficient, full of Mercy: if it were Hiswill, He could destroy you, and in your place appoint whom He will as yoursuccessors, even as He raised you up from the posterity of other people.
6/134 All that hath been promised unto you will come to pass: norcan ye frustrate it (in the least bit).
6/135 Say: "O my people! Do whatever ye can: I will do (my part):soon will ye know who it is whose end will be (best) in the Hereafter:certain it is that the wrong-doers will not prosper."
6/136 Out of what Allah hath produced in abundance in tilth and incattle, they assigned Him a share: they say, according to their fancies:"This is for Allah, and this" - for our "partners"! but the share of their"partners "reacheth not Allah, whilst the share of Allah reacheth their"partners" ! evil (and unjust) is their assignment!
6/137 Even so, in the eyes of most of the pagans, their "partners"made alluring the slaughter of their children, in order to lead them totheir own destruction, and cause confusion in their religion. If Allah hadwilled, they would not have done so: But leave alone them and theirinventions.
6/138 And they say that such and such cattle and crops are taboo,and none should eat of them except those whom - so they say - We wish;further, there are cattle forbidden to yoke or burden, and cattle on which,(at slaughter), the name of Allah is not pronounced; - inventions againstAllah's name: soon will He requite them for their inventions.
6/139 They say: "What is in the wombs of such and such cattle isspecially reserved (for food) for our men, and forbidden to our women; butif it is still-born, then all have share therein. For their (false)attribution (of superstitions to Allah), He will soon punish them: for He isfull of wisdom and knowledge.
6/140 Lost are those who slay their children, from folly, withoutknowledge, and forbid food which Allah hath provided for them, inventing(lies) against Allah. They have indeed gone astray and heeded no guidance.
6/141 It is He Who produceth gardens, with trellises and without,and dates, and tilth with produce of all kinds, and olives andpomegranates, similar (in kind) and different (in variety): eat of theirfruit in their season, but render the dues that are proper on the day thatthe harvest is gathered. But waste not by excess: for Allah loveth not thewasters.
6/142 Of the cattle are some for burden and some for meat: eat whatAllah hath provided for you, and follow not the footsteps of Satan: for he isto you and avowed enemy.
6/143 (Take) eight (head of cattle) in (four) pairs: of sheep apair, and of goats a pair; say, hath He forbidden the two males, or the twofemales, or (the young) which the wombs of the two females enclose? Tell mewith knowledge if ye are truthful:
6/144 Of camels a pair, and oxen a pair; say, hath He forbidden thetwo males, or the two females,  or (the young) which the wombs of the twofemales enclose? -  Were ye present when Allah ordered you such a thing? Butwho doth more wrong than one who invents a lie against Allah, to lead astraymen without knowledge? For Allah guideth not people who do wrong.
6/145 Say: "I find not in the message received by me by inspirationany (meat) forbidden to be eaten by one who wishes to eat it, unless it bedead meat, or blood poured forth, or the flesh of swine,- for it is anabomination - or, what is impious, (meat) on which a name has been invoked,other than Allah's". But (even so), if a person is forced by necessity,without wilful disobedience, nor transgressing due limits,- thy Lord isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
6/146 For those who followed the Jewish Law, We forbade every(animal) with undivided hoof, and We forbade them that fat of the ox andthe sheep, except what adheres to their backs or their entrails, or ismixed up with a bone: this in recompense for their wilful disobedience: forWe are true (in Our ordinances).
6/147 If they accuse thee of falsehood, say: "Your Lord is full ofmercy all-embracing; but from people in guilt never will His wrath beturned back.
6/148 Those who give partners (to Allah) will say: "If Allah had wished,we should not have given partners to Him nor would our fathers; nor shouldwe have had any taboos." So did their ancestors argue falsely, until theytasted of Our wrath. Say: "Have ye any (certain) knowledge? If so, produceit before us. Ye follow nothing but conjecture: ye do nothing but lie."
6/149 Say: "With Allah is the argument that reaches home: if it hadbeen His will, He could indeed have guided you all."
6/150 Say: "Bring forward your witnesses to prove that Allah didforbid so and so." If they bring such witnesses, be not thou amongst them:Nor follow thou the vain desires of such as treat our signs as falsehoods,and such as believe not in the Hereafter: for they hold others as equalwith their Guardian-Lord.
6/151 Say: "Come, I will rehearse what Allah hath (really) prohibitedyou from": Join not anything as equal with Him; be good to your parents;kill not your children on a plea of want;- We provide sustenance for youand for them;- come not nigh to shameful deeds. Whether open or secret;take not life, which Allah hath made sacred, except by way of justice andlaw: thus doth He command you, that ye may learn wisdom.
6/152 And come not nigh to the orphan's property, except to improveit, until he attain the age of full strength; give measure and weight with(full) justice;- no burden do We place on any soul, but that which it canbear;- whenever ye speak, speak justly, even if a near relative isconcerned; and fulfil the covenant of Allah: thus doth He command you, thatye may remember.
6/153 Verily, this is My way, leading straight: follow it: follownot (other) paths: they will scatter you about from His (great) path: thusdoth He command you. that ye may be righteous.
6/154 Moreover, We gave Moses the Book, completing (Our favour) tothose who would do right, and explaining all things in detail,- and a guideand a mercy, that they might believe in the meeting with their Lord.
6/155 And this is a Book which We have revealed as a blessing: sofollow it and be righteous, that ye may receive mercy:
6/156 Lest ye should say: "The Book was sent down to two Peoplesbefore us, and for our part, we remained unacquainted with all that theylearned by assiduous study:"
6/157 Or lest ye should say: "If the Book had only been sent down tous, we should have followed its guidance better than they." Now then hathcome unto you a clear (sign) from your Lord,- and a guide and a mercy: thenwho could do more wrong than one who rejecteth Allah's signs, and turnethaway therefrom? In good time shall We requite those who turn away from Oursigns, with a dreadful penalty, for their turning away.
6/158 Are they waiting to see if the angels come to them, or thyLord (Himself), or certain of the signs of thy Lord! the day that certainof the signs of thy Lord do come, no good will it do to a soul to believein them then if it believed not before nor earned righteousness through itsfaith. Say: "Wait ye: we too are waiting."
6/159 As for those who divide their religion and break up intosects, thou hast no part in them in the least: their affair is with Allah: Hewill in the end tell them the truth of all that they did.
6/160 He that doeth good shall have ten times as much to his credit:He that doeth evil shall only be recompensed according to his evil: nowrong shall be done unto (any of) them.
6/161 Say: "Verily, my Lord hath guided me to a way that isstraight,- a religion of right,- the path (trod) by Abraham the true inFaith, and he (certainly) joined not gods with Allah."
6/162 Say: "Truly, my prayer and my service of sacrifice, my lifeand my death, are (all) for Allah, the Cherisher of the Worlds:
6/163 No partner hath He: this am I commanded, and I am the first ofthose who bow to His will.
6/164 Say: "Shall I seek for (my) Cherisher other than Allah, when Heis the Cherisher of all things (that exist)? Every soul draws the meed ofits acts on none but itself: no bearer of burdens can bear of burdens canbear the burden of another. Your goal in the end is towards Allah: He willtell you the truth of the things wherein ye disputed."
6/165 It is He Who hath made you (His) agents, inheritors of theearth: He hath raised you in ranks, some above others: that He may try youin the gifts He hath given you: for thy Lord is quick in punishment: yet Heis indeed Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
