21/1 Closer and closer to mankind comes their Reckoning: yet theyheed not and they turn away.
21/2 Never comes (aught) to them of a renewed Message from theirLord, but they listen to it as in jest,-
21/3 Their hearts toying as with trifles. The wrong-doers concealtheir private counsels, (saying),  "Is this (one) more than a man likeyourselves? Will ye go to witchcraft with your eyes open?"
21/4 Say: "My Lord knoweth (every) word (spoken) in the heavensand on earth: He is the One that heareth and knoweth (all things)."
21/5 "Nay," they say, "(these are) medleys of dream! - Nay, Heforged it! - Nay, He is (but) a poet! Let him then bring us a Sign like theones that were sent to (Prophets) of old!"
21/6 (As to those) before them, not one of the populations which Wedestroyed believed: will these believe?
21/7 Before thee, also, the messengers We sent were but men, to whomWe granted inspiration: If ye realise this not, ask of those who possessthe Message.
21/8 Nor did We give them bodies that ate no food, nor were theyexempt from death.
21/9 In the end We fulfilled to them Our Promise, and We saved themand those whom We pleased, but We destroyed those who transgressed beyondbounds.
21/10 We have revealed for you (O men!) a book in which is a Messagefor you: will ye not then understand?
21/11 How many were the populations We utterly destroyed because oftheir iniquities, setting up in their places other peoples?
21/12 Yet, when they felt Our Punishment (coming), behold, they(tried to) flee from it.
21/13 Flee not, but return to the good things of this life whichwere given you, and to your homes in order that ye may be called toaccount.
21/14 They said: "Ah! woe to us! We were indeed wrong-doers!"
21/15 And that cry of theirs ceased not, till We made them as afield that is mown, as ashes silent and quenched.
21/16 Not for (idle) sport did We create the heavens and the earthand all that is between!
21/17 If it had been Our wish to take (just) a pastime, We shouldsurely have taken it from the things nearest to Us, if We would do (such athing)!
21/18 Nay, We hurl the Truth against falsehood, and it knocks outits brain, and behold, falsehood doth perish! Ah! woe be to you for the(false) things ye ascribe (to Us).
21/19 To Him belong all (creatures) in the heavens and on earth:Even those who are in His (very) Presence are not too proud to serve Him,nor are they (ever) weary (of His service):
21/20 They celebrate His praises night and day, nor do they everflag or intermit.
21/21 Or have they taken (for worship) gods from the earth who canraise (the dead)?
21/22 If there were, in the heavens and the earth, other godsbesides Allah, there would have been confusion in both! but glory to Allah, theLord of the Throne:  (High is He) above what they attribute to Him!
21/23 He cannot be questioned for His acts, but they will bequestioned (for theirs).
21/24 Or have they taken for worship (other) gods besides him? Say,"Bring your convincing proof: this is the Message of those with me and theMessage of those before me." But most of them know not the Truth, and soturn away.
21/25 Not a messenger did We send before thee without thisinspiration sent by Us to him: that there is no god but I; thereforeworship and serve Me.
21/26 And they say: "(Allah) Most Gracious has begotten offspring."Glory to Him! they are (but) servants raised to honour.
21/27 They speak not before He speaks, and they act (in all things)by His Command.
21/28 He knows what is before them, and what is behind them, andthey offer no intercession except for those who are acceptable, and theystand in awe and reverence of His (Glory).
21/29 If any of them should say, "I am a god besides Him", such aone We should reward with Hell: thus do We reward those who do wrong.
21/30 Do not the Unbelievers see that the heavens and the earth werejoined together (as one unit of creation), before we clove them asunder? Wemade from water every living thing. Will they not then believe?
21/31 And We have set on the earth mountains standing firm, lest itshould shake with them, and We have made therein broad highways (betweenmountains) for them to pass through: that they may receive Guidance.
21/32 And We have made the heavens as a canopy well guarded: yet dothey turn away from the Signs which these things (point to)!
21/33 It is He Who created the Night and the Day, and the sun andthe moon: all (the celestial bodies) swim along, each in its roundedcourse.
21/34 We granted not to any man before thee permanent life (here):if then thou shouldst die, would they live permanently?
21/35 Every soul shall have a taste of death: and We test you byevil and by good by way of trial. to Us must ye return.
21/36 When the Unbelievers see thee, they treat thee not except withridicule. "Is this," (they say), "the one who talks of your gods?" and theyblaspheme at the mention of (Allah) Most Gracious!
21/37 Man is a creature of haste: soon (enough) will I show you MySigns; then ye will not ask Me to hasten them!
21/38 They say: "When will this promise come to pass, if ye aretelling the truth?"
21/39 If only the Unbelievers knew (the time) when they will not beable to ward off the fire from their faces, nor yet from their backs, and(when) no help can reach them!
21/40 Nay, it may come to them all of a sudden and confound them: nopower will they have then to avert it, nor will they (then) get respite.
21/41 Mocked were (many) messenger before thee; But their scofferswere hemmed in by the thing that they mocked.
21/42 Say: "Who can keep you safe by night and by day from (theWrath of) (Allah) Most Gracious?" Yet they turn away from the mention oftheir Lord.
21/43 Or have they gods that can guard them from Us? They have nopower to aid themselves, nor can they be defended from Us.
21/44 Nay, We gave the good things of this life to these men andtheir fathers until the period grew long for them; See they not that Wegradually reduce the land (in their control) from its outlying borders? Isit then they who will win?
21/45 Say, "I do but warn you according to revelation": But the deafwill not hear the call, (even) when they are warned!
21/46 If but a breath of the Wrath of thy Lord do touch them, theywill then say, "Woe to us! we did wrong indeed!"
21/47 We shall set up scales of justice for the Day of Judgment, sothat not a soul will be dealt with unjustly in the least, and if there be(no more than) the weight of a mustard seed, We will bring it (to account):and enough are We to take account.
21/48 In the past We granted to Moses and Aaron the criterion (forjudgment), and a Light and a Message for those who would do right,-
21/49 Those who fear their Lord in their most secret thoughts, andwho hold the Hour (of Judgment) in awe.
21/50 And this is a blessed Message which We have sent down: will yethen reject it?
21/51 We bestowed aforetime on Abraham his rectitude of conduct, andwell were We acquainted with him.
21/52 Behold! he said to his father and his people, "What are theseimages, to which ye are (so assiduously) devoted?"
21/53 They said, "We found our fathers worshipping them."
21/54 He said, "Indeed ye have been in manifest error - ye and yourfathers."
21/55 They said, "Have you brought us the Truth, or are you one ofthose who jest?"
21/56 He said, "Nay, your Lord is the Lord of the heavens and theearth, He Who created them (from nothing): and I am a witness to this(Truth).
21/57 "And by Allah, I have a plan for your idols - after ye go awayand turn your backs"..
21/58 So he broke them to pieces, (all) but the biggest of them,that they might turn (and address themselves) to it.
21/59 They said, "Who has done this to our gods? He must indeed besome man of impiety!"
21/60 They said, "We heard a youth talk of them: He is calledAbraham."
21/61 They said, "Then bring him before the eyes of the people, thatthey may bear witness."
21/62 They said, "Art thou the one that did this with our gods, OAbraham?"
21/63 He said: "Nay, this was done by - this is their biggest one!ask them, if they can speak intelligently!"
21/64 So they turned to themselves and said, "Surely ye are the onesin the wrong!"
21/65 Then were they confounded with shame: (they said), "Thouknowest full well that these (idols) do not speak!"
21/66 (Abraham) said, "Do ye then worship, besides Allah, things thatcan neither be of any good to you nor do you harm?
21/67 "Fie upon you, and upon the things that ye worship besidesAllah! Have ye no sense?"..
21/68 They said, "Burn him and protect your gods, If ye do (anythingat all)!"
21/69 We said, "O Fire! be thou cool, and (a means of) safety forAbraham!"
21/70 Then they sought a stratagem against him: but We made them theones that lost most!
21/71 But We delivered him and (his nephew) Lut (and directed them)to the land which We have blessed for the nations.
21/72 And We bestowed on him Isaac and, as an additional gift, (agrandson), Jacob, and We made righteous men of every one (of them).
21/73 And We made them leaders, guiding (men) by Our Command, and Wesent them inspiration to do good deeds, to establish regular prayers, andto practise regular charity; and they constantly served Us (and Us only).
21/74 And to Lut, too, We gave Judgment and Knowledge, and We savedhim from the town which practised abominations: truly they were a peoplegiven to Evil, a rebellious people.
21/75 And We admitted him to Our Mercy: for he was one of theRighteous.
21/76 (Remember) Noah, when he cried (to Us) aforetime: We listenedto his (prayer) and delivered him and his family from great distress.
21/77 We helped him against people who rejected Our Signs: trulythey were a people given to Evil: so We drowned them (in the Flood) alltogether.
21/78 And remember David and Solomon, when they gave judgment in thematter of the field into which the sheep of certain people had strayed bynight: We did witness their judgment.
21/79 To Solomon We inspired the (right) understanding of thematter: to each (of them) We gave Judgment and Knowledge; it was Our powerthat made the hills and the birds celebrate Our praises, with David: it wasWe Who did (all these things).
21/80 It was We Who taught him the making of coats of mail for yourbenefit, to guard you from each other's violence: will ye then begrateful?
21/81 (It was Our power that made) the violent (unruly) wind flow(tamely) for Solomon, to his order, to the land which We had blessed: forWe do know all things.
21/82 And of the evil ones, were some who dived for him, and didother work besides; and it was We Who guarded them.
21/83 And (remember) Job, when He cried to his Lord, "Truly distresshas seized me, but Thou art the Most Merciful of those that are merciful."
21/84 So We listened to him: We removed the distress that was onhim, and We restored his people to him, and doubled their number,- as aGrace from Ourselves, and a thing for commemoration, for all who serve Us.
21/85 And (remember) Isma'il, Idris, and Zul-kifl, all (men) ofconstancy and patience;
21/86 We admitted them to Our mercy: for they were of the righteousones.
21/87 And remember Zun-nun, when he departed in wrath: He imaginedthat We had no power over him! But he cried through the deptHs of darkness,"There is no god but thou: glory to thee: I was indeed wrong!"
21/88 So We listened to him: and delivered him from distress: andthus do We deliver those who have faith.
21/89 And (remember) Zakariya, when he cried to his Lord: "O myLord! leave me not without offspring, though thou art the best ofinheritors."
21/90 So We listened to him: and We granted him Yahya: We cured hiswife's (Barrenness) for him. These (three) were ever quick in emulation ingood works; they used to call on Us with love and reverence, and humblethemselves before Us.
21/91 And (remember) her who guarded her chastity: We breathed intoher of Our spirit, and We made her and her son a sign for all peoples.
21/92 Verily, this brotherhood of yours is a single brotherhood, andI am your Lord and Cherisher: therefore serve Me (and no other).
21/93 But (later generations) cut off their affair (of unity), onefrom another: (yet) will they all return to Us.
21/94 Whoever works any act of righteousness and has faith,- Hisendeavour will not be rejected: We shall record it in his favour.
21/95 But there is a ban on any population which We have destroyed:that they shall not return,
21/96 Until the Gog and Magog (people) are let through (theirbarrier), and they swiftly swarm from every hill.
21/97 Then will the true promise draw nigh (of fulfilment): thenbehold! the eyes of the Unbelievers will fixedly stare in horror: "Ah! Woeto us! we were indeed heedless of this; nay, we truly did wrong!"
21/98 Verily ye, (unbelievers), and the (false) gods that ye worshipbesides Allah, are (but) fuel for Hell! to it will ye (surely) come!
21/99 If these had been gods, they would not have got there! buteach one will abide therein.
21/100 There, sobbing will be their lot, nor will they there hear(aught else).
21/101 Those for whom the good (record) from Us has gone before, willbe removed far therefrom.
21/102 Not the slightest sound will they hear of Hell: what theirsouls desired, in that will they dwell.
21/103 The Great Terror will bring them no grief: but the angels willmeet them (with mutual greetings): "This is your Day,- (the Day) that yewere promised."
21/104 The Day that We roll up the heavens like a scroll rolled upfor books (completed),- even as We produced the first creation, so shall Weproduce a new one: a promise We have undertaken: truly shall We fulfil it.
21/105 Before this We wrote in the Psalms, after the Message (givento Moses): My servants the righteous, shall inherit the earth."
21/106 Verily in this (Qur'an) is a Message for people who would(truly) worship Allah.
21/107 We sent thee not, but as a Mercy for all creatures.
21/108 Say: "What has come to me by inspiration is that your Allah isOne Allah: will ye therefore bow to His Will (in Islam)?"
21/109 But if they turn back, Say: "I have proclaimed the Message toyou all alike and in truth; but I know not whether that which ye arepromised is near or far.
21/110 "It is He Who knows what is open in speech and what ye hide(in your hearts).
21/111 "I know not but that it may be a trial for you, and a grant of(worldly) livelihood (to you) for a time."
21/112 Say: "O my Lord! judge Thou in truth!" "Our Lord MostGracious is the One Whose assistance should be sought against theblasphemies ye utter!"
