8/1 They ask thee concerning (things taken as) spoils of war. Say:"(such) spoils are at the disposal of Allah and the Messenger: So fear Allah, andkeep straight the relations between yourselves: Obey Allah and His Messenger,if ye do believe."
8/2 For, Believers are those who, when Allah is mentioned, feel atremor in their hearts, and when they hear His signs rehearsed, find theirfaith strengthened, and put (all) their trust in their Lord;
8/3 Who establish regular prayers and spend (freely) out of thegifts We have given them for sustenance:
8/4 Such in truth are the believers: they have grades of dignitywith their Lord, and forgiveness, and generous sustenance:
8/5 Just as thy Lord ordered thee out of thy house in truth, eventhough a party among the Believers disliked it,
8/6 Disputing with thee concerning the truth after it was mademanifest, as if they were being driven to death and they (actually) sawit.
8/7 Behold! Allah promised you one of the two (enemy) parties, thatit should be yours: Ye wished that the one unarmed should be yours, but Allahwilled to justify the Truth according to His words and to cut off the rootsof the Unbelievers;-
8/8 That He might justify Truth and prove Falsehood false,distasteful though it be to those in guilt.
8/9 Remember ye implored the assistance of your Lord, and Heanswered you: "I will assist you with a thousand of the angels, ranks onranks."
8/10 Allah made it but a message of hope, and an assurance to yourhearts: (in any case) there is no help except from Allah: and Allah is Exaltedin Power, Wise.
8/11 Remember He covered you with a sort of drowsiness, to give youcalm as from Himself, and he caused rain to descend on you from heaven, toclean you therewith, to remove from you the stain of Satan, to strengthenyour hearts, and to plant your feet firmly therewith.
8/12 Remember thy Lord inspired the angels (with the message): "Iam with you: give firmness to the Believers: I will instil terror into thehearts of the Unbelievers: smite ye above their necks and smite all theirfinger-tips off them."
8/13 This because they contended against Allah and His Messenger: Ifany contend against Allah and His Messenger, Allah is strict in punishment.
8/14 Thus (will it be said): "Taste ye then of the (punishment):for those who resist Allah, is the penalty of the Fire."
8/15 O ye who believe! when ye meet the Unbelievers in hostilearray, never turn your backs to them.
8/16 If any do turn his back to them on such a day - unless it bein a stratagem of war, or to retreat to a troop (of his own)- he draws onhimself the wrath of Allah, and his abode is Hell,- an evil refuge (indeed)!
8/17 It is not ye who slew them; it was Allah: when thou threwest (ahandful of dust), it was not thy act, but Allah's: in order that He mighttest the Believers by a gracious trial from Himself: for Allah is He Whoheareth and knoweth (all things).
8/18 That, and also because Allah is He Who makes feeble the plansand stratagem of the Unbelievers.
8/19 (O Unbelievers!) if ye prayed for victory and judgment, nowhath the judgment come to you: if ye desist (from wrong), it will be bestfor you: if ye return (to the attack), so shall We. Not the least good willyour forces be to you even if they were multiplied: for verily Allah is withthose who believe!
8/20 O ye who believe! Obey Allah and His Messenger, and turn not awayfrom him when ye hear (him speak).
8/21 Nor be like those who say, "We hear," but listen not:
8/22 For the worst of beasts in the sight of Allah are the deaf andthe dumb,- those who understand not.
8/23 If Allah had found in them any good. He would indeed have madethem listen: (As it is), if He had made them listen, they would but haveturned back and declined (Faith).
8/24 O ye who believe! give your response to Allah and His Messenger,when He calleth you to that which will give you life; and know that Allahcometh in between a man and his heart, and that it is He to Whom ye shall(all) be gathered.
8/25 And fear tumult or oppression, which affecteth not inparticular (only) those of you who do wrong: and know that Allah is strict inpunishment.
8/26 Call to mind when ye were a small (band), despised through theland, and afraid that men might despoil and kidnap you; But He provided asafe asylum for you, strengthened  you with His aid, and gave you Goodthings for sustenance: that ye might be grateful.
8/27 O ye that believe! betray not the trust of Allah and theMessenger, nor misappropriate knowingly things entrusted to you.
8/28 And know ye that your possessions and your progeny are but atrial; and that it is Allah with Whom lies your highest reward.
8/29 O ye who believe! if ye fear Allah, He will grant you acriterion (to judge between right and wrong), remove from you (all) evil(that may afflict) you, and forgive you: for Allah is the Lord of graceunbounded.
8/30 Remember how the Unbelievers plotted against thee, to keepthee in bonds, or slay thee, or get thee out (of thy home). They plot andplan, and Allah too plans; but the best of planners is Allah.
8/31 When Our Signs are rehearsed to them, they say: "We have heardthis (before): if we wished, we could say (words) like these: these arenothing but tales of the ancients."
8/32 Remember how they said: "O Allah if this is indeed the Truthfrom Thee, rain down on us a shower of stones form the sky, or send us agrievous penalty."
8/33 But Allah was not going to send them a penalty whilst thou wastamongst them; nor was He going to send it whilst they could ask forpardon.
8/34 But what plea have they that Allah should not punish them, whenthey keep out (men) from the sacred Mosque - and they are not itsguardians? No men can be its guardians except the righteous; but most ofthem do not understand.
8/35 Their prayer at the House (of Allah) is nothing but whistlingand clapping of hands: (Its only answer can be), "Taste ye the penaltybecause ye blasphemed."
8/36 The Unbelievers spend their wealth to hinder (man) from thepath of Allah, and so will they continue to spend; but in the end they willhave (only) regrets and sighs; at length they will be overcome: and theUnbelievers will be gathered together to Hell;-
8/37 In order that Allah may separate the impure from the pure, putthe impure, one on another, heap them together, and cast them into Hell.They will be the ones to have lost.
8/38 Say to the Unbelievers, if (now) they desist (from Unbelief),their past would be forgiven them; but if they persist, the punishment ofthose before them is already (a matter of warning for them).
8/39 And fight them on until there is no more tumult or oppression,and there prevail justice and faith in Allah altogether and everywhere; butif they cease, verily Allah doth see all that they do.
8/40 If they refuse, be sure that Allah is your Protector - the bestto protect and the best to help.
8/41 And know that out of all the booty that ye may acquire (inwar), a fifth share is assigned to Allah,- and to the Messenger, and to nearrelatives, orphans, the needy, and the wayfarer,- if ye do believe in Allahand in the revelation We sent down to Our servant on the Day of Testing,-the Day of the meeting of the two forces. For Allah hath power over allthings.
8/42 Remember ye were on the hither side of the valley, and they onthe farther side, and the caravan on lower ground than ye. Even if ye hadmade a mutual appointment to meet, ye would certainly have failed in theappointment: But (thus ye met), that Allah might accomplish a matter alreadyenacted; that those who died might die after a clear Sign (had been given),and those who lived might live after a Clear Sign (had been given). Andverily Allah is He Who heareth and knoweth (all things).
8/43 Remember in thy dream Allah showed them to thee as few: if Hehad shown them to thee as many, ye would surely have been discouraged, andye would surely have disputed in (your) decision; but Allah saved (you): forHe knoweth well the (secrets) of (all) hearts.
8/44 And remember when ye met, He showed them to you as few in youreyes, and He made you appear as contemptible in their eyes: that Allah mightaccomplish a matter already enacted. For to Allah do all questions go back(for decision).
8/45 O ye who believe! When ye meet a force, be firm, and call Allahin remembrance much (and often); that ye may prosper:
8/46 And obey Allah and His Messenger; and fall into no disputes, lestye lose heart and your power depart; and be patient and persevering: ForAllah is with those who patiently persevere:
8/47 And be not like those who started from their homes insolentlyand to be seen of men, and to hinder (men) from the path of Allah: For Allahcompasseth round about all that they do.
8/48 Remember Satan made their (sinful) acts seem alluring to them,and said: "No one among men can overcome you this day, while I am near toyou": But when the two forces came in sight of each other, he turned on hisheels, and said: "Lo! I am clear of you; lo! I see what ye see not; Lo! Ifear Allah: for Allah is strict in punishment."
8/49 Lo! the hypocrites say, and those in whose hearts is adisease: "These people,- their religion has misled them." But if any trustin Allah, behold! Allah is Exalted in might, Wise.
8/50 If thou couldst see, when the angels take the souls of theUnbelievers (at death), (How) they smite their faces and their backs,(saying): "Taste the penalty of the blazing Fire-
8/51 "Because of (the deeds) which your (own) hands sent forth; forAllah is never unjust to His servants:
8/52 "(Deeds) after the manner of the people of Pharaoh and ofthose before them: They rejected the Signs of Allah, and Allah punished themfor their crimes: for Allah is Strong, and Strict in punishment:
8/53 "Because Allah will never change the grace which He hathbestowed on a people until they change what is in their (own) souls: andverily Allah is He Who heareth and knoweth (all things)."
8/54 (Deeds) after the manner of the people of Pharaoh and thosebefore them": They treated as false the Signs of their Lord: so Wedestroyed them for their crimes, and We drowned the people of Pharaoh: forthey were all oppressors and wrong-doers.
8/55 For the worst of beasts in the sight of Allah are those whoreject Him: They will not believe.
8/56 They are those with whom thou didst make a covenant, but theybreak their covenant every time, and they have not the fear (of Allah).
8/57 If ye gain the mastery over them in war, disperse, with them,those who follow them, that they may remember.
8/58 If thou fearest treachery from any group, throw back (theircovenant) to them, (so as to be) on equal terms: for Allah loveth not thetreacherous.
8/59 Let not the unbelievers think that they can get the better (ofthe godly): they will never frustrate (them).
8/60 Against them make ready your strength to the utmost of yourpower, including steeds of war, to strike terror into (the hearts of) theenemies, of Allah and your enemies, and others besides, whom ye may not know,but whom Allah doth know. Whatever ye shall spend in the cause of Allah, shallbe repaid unto you, and ye shall not be treated unjustly.
8/61 But if the enemy incline towards peace, do thou (also) inclinetowards peace, and trust in Allah: for He is One that heareth and knoweth(all things).
8/62 Should they intend to deceive thee,- verily Allah sufficeththee: He it is That hath strengthened thee with His aid and with (thecompany of) the Believers;
8/63 And (moreover) He hath put affection between their hearts: notif thou hadst spent all that is in the earth, couldst thou have producedthat affection, but Allah hath done it: for He is Exalted in might, Wise.
8/64 O Prophet! sufficient unto thee is Allah,- (unto thee) and untothose who follow thee among the Believers.
8/65 O Prophet! rouse the Believers to the fight. If there aretwenty amongst you, patient and persevering, they will vanquish twohundred: if a hundred, they will vanquish a thousand of the Unbelievers:for these are a people without understanding.
8/66 For the present, Allah hath lightened your (task), for Heknoweth that there is a weak spot in you: But (even so), if there are ahundred of you, patient and persevering, they will vanquish two hundred,and if a thousand, they will vanquish two thousand, with the leave of Allah:for Allah is with those who patiently persevere.
8/67 It is not fitting for a prophet that he should have prisonersof war until he hath thoroughly subdued the land. Ye look for the temporalgoods of this world; but Allah looketh to the Hereafter: And Allah is Exaltedin might, Wise.
8/68 Had it not been for a previous ordainment from Allah, a severepenalty would have reached you for the (ransom) that ye took.
8/69 But (now) enjoy what ye took in war, lawful and good: but fearAllah: for Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
8/70 O Prophet! say to those who are captives in your hands: "IfAllah findeth any good in your hearts, He will give you something better thanwhat has been taken from you, and He will forgive you: for Allah isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful."
8/71 But if they have treacherous designs against thee, (OMessenger!), they have already been in treason against Allah, and so hath Hegiven (thee) power over them. And Allah so He Who hath (full) knowledge andwisdom.
8/72 Those who believed, and adopted exile, and fought for theFaith, with their property and their persons, in the cause of Allah, as wellas those who gave (them) asylum and aid,- these are (all) friends andprotectors, one of another. As to those who believed but came not intoexile, ye owe no duty of protection to them until they come into exile; butif they seek your aid in religion, it is your duty to help them, exceptagainst a people with whom ye have a treaty of mutual alliance. And(remember) Allah seeth all that ye do.
8/73 The Unbelievers are protectors, one of another: Unless ye dothis, (protect each other), there would be tumult and oppression on earth,and great mischief.
8/74 Those who believe, and adopt exile, and fight for the Faith,in the cause of Allah as well as those who give (them) asylum and aid,- theseare (all) in very truth the Believers: for them is the forgiveness of sinsand a provision most generous.
8/75 And those who accept Faith subsequently, and adopt exile, andfight for the Faith in your company,- they are of you. But kindred by bloodhave prior rights against each other in the Book of Allah. Verily Allah iswell-acquainted with all things.
