35/1 Praise be to Allah, Who created (out of nothing) the heavens andthe earth, Who made the angels, messengers with wings,- two, or three, orfour (pairs): He adds to Creation as He pleases: for Allah has power over allthings.
35/2 What Allah out of his Mercy doth bestow on mankind there is nonecan withhold: what He doth withhold, there is none can grant, apart fromHim: and He is the Exalted in Power, full of Wisdom.
35/3 O men! Call to mind the grace of Allah unto you! is there acreator, other than Allah, to give you sustenance from heaven or earth? Thereis no god but He: how then are ye deluded away from the Truth?
35/4 And if they reject thee, so were messengers rejected beforethee: to Allah back for decision all affairs.
35/5 O men! Certainly the promise of Allah is true. Let not then thispresent life deceive you, nor let the Chief Deceiver deceive you aboutAllah.
35/6 Verily Satan is an enemy to you: so treat him as an enemy. Heonly invites his adherents, that they may become Companions of the BlazingFire.
35/7 For those who reject Allah, is a terrible Penalty: but for thosewho believe and work righteous deeds, is Forgiveness, and a magnificentReward.
35/8 Is he, then, to whom the evil of his conduct is made alluring,so that he looks upon it as good, (equal to one who is rightly guided)? ForAllah leaves to stray whom He wills, and guides whom He wills. So let not thysoul go out in (vainly) sighing after them:  for Allah knows well all thatthey do!
35/9 It is Allah Who sends forth the Winds, so that they raise up theClouds, and We drive them to a land that is dead, and revive the earththerewith after its death: even so (will be) the Resurrection!
35/10 If any do seek for glory and power,- to Allah belong all gloryand power. To Him mount up (all) Words of Purity: It is He Who exalts eachDeed of Righteousness. Those that lay Plots of Evil,- for them is a Penaltyterrible; and the plotting of such will be void (of result).
35/11 And Allah did create you from dust; then from a sperm-drop; thenHe made you in pairs. And no female conceives, or lays down (her load), butwith His knowledge. Nor is a man long-lived granted length of days, nor isa part cut off from his life, but is in a Decree (ordained). All this iseasy to Allah.
35/12 Nor are the two bodies of flowing water alike,- the onepalatable, sweet, and pleasant to drink, and the other, salt and bitter.Yet from each (kind of water) do ye eat flesh fresh and tender, and yeextract ornaments to wear; and thou seest the ships therein that plough thewaves, that ye may seek (thus) of the Bounty of Allah that ye may begrateful.
35/13 He merges Night into Day, and he merges Day into Night, and hehas subjected the sun and the moon (to his Law): each one runs its coursefor a term appointed. Such is Allah your Lord: to Him belongs all Dominion.And those whom ye invoke besides Him have not the least power.
35/14 If ye invoke them, they will not listen to your call, and ifthey were to listen, they cannot answer your (prayer). On the Day ofJudgment they will reject your "Partnership". and none, (O man!) can tellthee (the Truth) like the One Who is acquainted with all things.
35/15 O ye men! It is ye that have need of Allah: but Allah is the OneFree of all wants, worthy of all praise.
35/16 If He so pleased, He could blot you out and bring in a NewCreation.
35/17 Nor is that (at all) difficult for Allah.
35/18 Nor can a bearer of burdens bear another's burdens if oneheavily laden should call another to (bear) his load. Not the least portionof it can be carried (by the other). Even though he be nearly related. Thoucanst but admonish such as fear their Lord unseen and establish regularPrayer. And whoever purifies himself does so for the benefit of his ownsoul; and the destination (of all) is to Allah.
35/19 The blind and the seeing are not alike;
35/20 Nor are the depths of Darkness and the Light;
35/21 Nor are the (chilly) shade and the (genial) heat of the sun:
35/22 Nor are alike those that are living and those that are dead.Allah can make any that He wills to hear; but thou canst not make those tohear who are (buried) in graves.
35/23 Thou art no other than a warner.
35/24 Verily We have sent thee in truth, as a bearer of gladtidings, and as a warner: and there never was a people, without a warnerhaving lived among them (in the past).
35/25 And if they reject thee, so did their predecessors, to whomcame their messengers with Clear Signs, Books of dark prophecies, and theBook of Enlightenment.
35/26 In the end did I punish those who rejected Faith: and how(terrible) was My rejection (of them)!
35/27 Seest thou not that Allah sends down rain from the sky? With itWe then bring out produce of various colours. And in the mountains aretracts white and red, of various shades of colour, and black intense inhue.
35/28 And so amongst men and crawling creatures and cattle, are theyof various colours. Those truly fear Allah, among His Servants, who haveknowledge: for Allah is Exalted in Might, Oft-Forgiving.
35/29 Those who rehearse the Book of Allah, establish regular Prayer,and spend (in Charity) out of what We have provided for them, secretly andopenly, hope for a commerce that will never fail:
35/30 For He will pay them their meed, nay, He will give them (even)more out of His Bounty: for He is Oft-Forgiving, Most Ready to appreciate(service).
35/31 That which We have revealed to thee of the Book is the Truth,-confirming what was (revealed) before it: for Allah is assuredly- withrespect to His Servants - well acquainted and Fully Observant.
35/32 Then We have given the Book for inheritance to such of OurServants as We have chosen: but there are among them some who wrong theirown souls; some who follow a middle course; and some who are, by Allah'sleave, foremost in good deeds; that is the highest Grace.
35/33 Gardens of Eternity will they enter: therein will they beadorned with bracelets of gold and pearls; and their garments there will beof silk.
35/34 And they will say: "Praise be to Allah, Who has removed from us(all) sorrow: for our Lord is indeed Oft-Forgiving Ready to appreciate(service):
35/35 "Who has, out of His Bounty, settled us in a Home that willlast: no toil nor sense of weariness shall touch us therein."
35/36 But those who reject (Allah) - for them will be the Fire ofHell: No term shall be determined for them, so they should die, nor shallits Penalty be lightened for them. Thus do We reward every ungrateful one!
35/37 Therein will they cry aloud (for assistance): "Our Lord! Bringus out: we shall work righteousness, not the (deeds) we used to do!" - "DidWe not give you long enough life so that he that would should receiveadmonition? and (moreover) the warner came to you. So taste ye (the fruitsof your deeds): for the wrong-doers there is no helper."
35/38 Verily Allah knows (all) the hidden things of the heavens andthe earth: verily He has full knowledge of all that is in (men's) hearts.
35/39 He it is That has made you inheritors in the earth: if, then,any do reject (Allah), their rejection (works) against themselves: theirrejection but adds to the odium for the Unbelievers in the sight of theirLord: their rejection but adds to (their own) undoing.
35/40 Say: "Have ye seen (these) 'Partners' of yours whom ye callupon besides Allah? Show Me what it is they have created in the (wide) earth.Or have they a share in the heavens? Or have We given them a Book fromwhich they (can derive) clear (evidence)?- Nay, the wrong-doers promiseeach other nothing but delusions.
35/41 It is Allah Who sustains the heavens and the earth, lest theycease (to function): and if they should fail, there is none - not one - cansustain them thereafter: Verily He is Most Forbearing, Oft-Forgiving.
35/42 They swore their strongest oaths by Allah that if a warner cameto them, they would follow his guidance better than any (other) of thePeoples: But when a warner came to them, it has only increased their flight(from righteousness),-
35/43 On account of their arrogance in the land and their plottingof Evil, but the plotting of Evil will hem in only the authors thereof. Noware they but looking for the way the ancients were dealt with? But nochange wilt thou find in Allah's way (of dealing): no turning off wilt thoufind in Allah's way (of dealing).
35/44 Do they not travel through the earth, and see what was the Endof those before them,- though they were superior to them in strength? Noris Allah to be frustrated by anything whatever in the heavens or on earth:for He is All-Knowing. All-Powerful.
35/45 If Allah were to punish men according to what they deserve. Hewould not leave on the back of the (earth) a single living creature: but Hegives them respite for a stated Term: when their Term expires, verily Allahhas in His sight all His Servants.
