48/1 Verily We have granted thee a manifest Victory:
48/2 That Allah may forgive thee thy faults of the past and those tofollow; fulfil His favour to thee; and guide thee on the Straight Way;
48/3 And that Allah may help thee with powerful help.
48/4 It is He Who sent down tranquillity into the hearts of theBelievers, that they may add faith to their faith;- for to Allah belong theForces of the heavens and the earth; and Allah is Full of Knowledge andWisdom;-
48/5 That He may admit the men and women who believe, to Gardensbeneath which rivers flow, to dwell therein for aye, and remove their illsfrom them;- and that is, in the sight of Allah, the highest achievement (forman),-
48/6 And that He may punish the Hypocrites, men and women, and thePolytheists men and women, who imagine an evil opinion of Allah. On them is around of Evil: the Wrath of Allah is on them: He has cursed them and got Hellready for them: and evil is it for a destination.
48/7 For to Allah belong the Forces of the heavens and the earth; andAllah is Exalted in Power, Full of Wisdom.
48/8 We have truly sent thee as a witness, as a bringer of GladTidings, and as a Warner:
48/9 In order that ye (O men) may believe in Allah and His Messenger,that ye may assist and honour Him, and celebrate His praise morning andevening.
48/10 Verily those who plight their fealty to thee do no less thanplight their fealty to Allah: the Hand of Allah is over their hands: then anyone who violates his oath, does so to the harm of his own soul, and any onewho fulfils what he has covenanted with Allah,- Allah will soon grant him agreat Reward.
48/11 The desert Arabs who lagged behind will say to thee: "We wereengaged in (looking after) our flocks and herds, and our families: do thouthen ask forgiveness for us." They say with their tongues what is not intheir hearts. Say: "Who then has any power at all (to intervene) on yourbehalf with Allah, if His Will is to give you some loss or to give you someprofit?  But Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do.
48/12 "Nay, ye thought that the Messenger and the Believers wouldnever return to their families; this seemed pleasing in your hearts, and yeconceived an evil thought, for ye are a people lost (in wickedness)."
48/13 And if any believe not in Allah and His Messenger, We haveprepared, for those who reject Allah, a Blazing Fire!
48/14 To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth: Heforgives whom He wills, and He punishes whom He wills: but Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
48/15 Those who lagged behind (will say), when ye (are free to)march and take booty (in war): "Permit us to follow you." They wish tochange Allah's decree: Say: "Not thus will ye follow us: Allah has alreadydeclared (this) beforehand": then they will say, "But ye are jealous ofus." Nay, but little do they understand (such things).
48/16 Say to the desert Arabs who lagged behind: "Ye shall besummoned (to fight) against a people given to vehement war: then shall yefight, or they shall submit. Then if ye show obedience, Allah will grant youa goodly reward, but if ye turn back as ye did before, He will punish youwith a grievous Penalty."
48/17 No blame is there on the blind, nor is there blame on thelame, nor on one ill (if he joins not the war): But he that obeys Allah andhis Messenger,- (Allah) will admit him to Gardens beneath which rivers flow;and he who turns back, (Allah) will punish him with a grievous Penalty.
48/18 Allah's Good Pleasure was on the Believers when they sworeFealty to thee under the Tree: He knew what was in their hearts, and Hesent down Tranquillity to them; and He rewarded them with a speedyVictory;
48/19 And many gains will they acquire (besides): and Allah is Exaltedin Power, Full of Wisdom.
48/20 Allah has promised you many gains that ye shall acquire, and Hehas given you these beforehand; and He has restrained the hands of men fromyou; that it may be a Sign for the Believers, and that He may guide you toa Straight Path;
48/21 And other gains (there are), which are not within your power,but which Allah has compassed: and Allah has power over all things.
48/22 If the Unbelievers should fight you, they would certainly turntheir backs; then would they find neither protector nor helper.
48/23 (Such has been) the practice (approved) of Allah already in thepast: no change wilt thou find in the practice (approved) of Allah.
48/24 And it is He Who has restrained their hands from you and yourhands from them in the midst of Makka, after that He gave you the victoryover them. And Allah sees well all that ye do.
48/25 They are the ones who denied Revelation and hindered you fromthe Sacred Mosque and the sacrificial animals, detained from reaching theirplace of sacrifice. Had there not been believing men and believing womenwhom ye did not know that ye were trampling down and on whose account acrime would have accrued to you without (your) knowledge, (Allah would haveallowed you to force your way, but He held back your hands) that He mayadmit to His Mercy whom He will. If they had been apart, We shouldcertainly have punished the Unbelievers among them with a grievousPunishment.
48/26 While the Unbelievers got up in their hearts heat and cant -the heat and cant of ignorance,- Allah sent down His Tranquillity to hisMessenger and to the Believers, and made them stick close to the command ofself-restraint; and well were they entitled to it and worthy of it. And Allahhas full knowledge of all things.
48/27 Truly did Allah fulfil the vision for His Messenger: ye shallenter the Sacred Mosque, if Allah wills, with minds secure, heads shaved,hair cut short, and without fear. For He knew what ye knew not, and Hegranted, besides this, a speedy victory.
48/28 It is He Who has sent His Messenger with Guidance and theReligion of Truth, to proclaim it over all religion: and enough is Allah fora Witness.
48/29 Muhammad is the messenger of Allah; and those who are with him arestrong against Unbelievers, (but) compassionate amongst each other. Thouwilt see them bow and prostrate themselves (in prayer), seeking Grace fromAllah and (His) Good Pleasure. On their faces are their marks, (being) thetraces of their prostration. This is their similitude in the Taurat;  andtheir similitude in the Gospel is: like a seed which sends forth its blade,then makes it strong; it then becomes thick, and it stands on its own stem,(filling) the sowers with wonder and delight. As a result, it fills theUnbelievers with rage at them. Allah has promised those among them whobelieve and do righteous deeds forgiveness, and a great Reward.
