25/1 Blessed is He who sent down the criterion to His servant, thatit may be an admonition to all creatures;-
25/2 He to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth:no son has He begotten, nor has He a partner in His dominion: it is He whocreated all things, and ordered them in due proportions.
25/3 Yet have they taken, besides him, gods that can create nothingbut are themselves created; that have no control of hurt or good tothemselves; nor can they control death nor life nor resurrection.
25/4 But the misbelievers say: "Naught is this but a lie which hehas forged, and others have helped him at it." In truth it is they who haveput forward an iniquity and a falsehood.
25/5 And they say: "Tales of the ancients, which he has caused tobe written: and they are dictated before him morning and evening."
25/6 Say: "The (Qur'an) was sent down by Him who knows the mystery(that is) in the heavens and the earth: verily He is Oft-Forgiving, MostMerciful."
25/7 And they say: "What sort of a messenger is this, who eats food,and walks through the streets? Why has not an angel been sent down to himto give admonition with him?
25/8 "Or (Why) has not a treasure been bestowed on him, or why hashe (not) a garden for enjoyment?" The wicked say: "Ye follow none otherthan a man bewitched."
25/9 See what kinds of comparisons they make for thee! But theyhave gone astray, and never a way will they be able to find!
25/10 Blessed is He who, if that were His will, could give theebetter (things) than those,- Gardens beneath which rivers flow; and Hecould give thee palaces (secure to dwell in).
25/11 Nay they deny the hour (of the judgment to come): but We haveprepared a blazing fire for such as deny the hour:
25/12 When it sees them from a place fAr off, they will hear itsfury and its ranging sigh.
25/13 And when they are cast, bound together into a constrictedplace therein, they will pLead for destruction there and then!
25/14 "This day plead not for a single destruction: plead fordestruction oft-repeated!"
25/15 Say: "Is that best, or the eternal garden, promised to therighteous? for them, that is a reward as well as a goal (of attainment).
25/16 "For them there will be therein all that they wish for: theywill dwell (there) for aye: A promise to be prayed for from thy Lord."
25/17 The day He will gather them together as well as those whomthey worship besides Allah, He will ask: "Was it ye who let these My servantsastray, or did they stray from the Path themselves?"
25/18 They will say: "Glory to Thee! not meet was it for us that weshould take for protectors others besides Thee: But Thou didst bestow, onthem and their fathers, good things (in life), until they forgot theMessage: for they were a people (worthless and) lost."
25/19 (Allah will say): "Now have they proved you liars in what yesay: so ye cannot avert (your penalty) nor (get) help." And whoever amongyou does wrong, him shall We cause to taste of a grievous Penalty.
25/20 And the messengers whom We sent before thee were all (men) whoate food and walked through the streets: We have made some of you as atrial for others: will ye have patience? for Allah is One Who sees (allthings).
25/21 Such as fear not the meeting with Us (for Judgment) say: "Whyare not the angels sent down to us, or (why) do we not see our Lord?"Indeed they have an arrogant conceit of themselves, and mighty is theinsolence of their impiety!
25/22 The Day they see the angels,- no joy will there be to thesinners that Day: The (angels) will say: "There is a barrier forbidden (toyou) altogether!"
25/23 And We shall turn to whatever deeds they did (in this life),and We shall make such deeds as floating dust scattered about.
25/24 The Companions of the Garden will be well, that Day, in theirabode, and have the fairest of places for repose.
25/25 The Day the heaven shall be rent asunder with clouds, andangels shall be sent down, descending (in ranks),-
25/26 That Day, the dominion as of right and truth, shall be(wholly) for (Allah) Most Merciful: it will be a Day of dire difficulty forthe Misbelievers.
25/27 The Day that the wrong-doer will bite at his hands, he willsay, "Oh! would that I had taken a (straight) path with the Messenger!
25/28 "Ah! woe is me! Would that I had never taken such a one for afriend!
25/29 "He did lead me astray from the Message (of Allah) after it hadcome to me! Ah! the Evil One is but a traitor to man!"
25/30 Then the Messenger will say: "O my Lord! Truly my people took thisQur'an for just foolish nonsense."
25/31 Thus have We made for every prophet an enemy among thesinners: but enough is thy Lord to guide and to help.
25/32 Those who reject Faith say: "Why is not the Qur'an revealed tohim all at once? Thus (is it revealed), that We may strengthen thy heartthereby, and We have rehearsed it to thee in slow, well-arranged stages,gradually.
25/33 And no question do they bring to thee but We reveal to theethe truth and the best explanation (thereof).
25/34 Those who will be gathered to Hell (prone) on their faces,-they will be in an evil plight, and, as to Path, most astray.
25/35 (Before this,) We sent Moses The Book, and appointed hisbrother Aaron with him as minister;
25/36 And We command: "Go ye both, to the people who have rejectedour Signs:" And those (people) We destroyed with utter destruction.
25/37 And the people of Noah,- when they rejected the messengers, Wedrowned them, and We made them as a Sign for mankind; and We have preparedfor (all) wrong-doers a grievous Penalty;-
25/38 As also 'Ad and Thamud, and the Companions of the Rass, andmany a generation between them.
25/39 To each one We set forth Parables and examples; and each oneWe broke to utter annihilation (for their sins).
25/40 And the (Unbelievers) must indeed have passed by the town onwhich was rained a shower of evil: did they not then see it (with their owneyes)? But they fear not the Resurrection.
25/41 When they see thee, they treat thee no otherwise than inmockery: "Is this the one whom Allah has sent as a messenger?"
25/42 "He indeed would well-nigh have misled us from our gods, hadit not been that we were constant to them!" - Soon will they know, whenthey see the Penalty, who it is that is most misled in Path!
25/43 Seest thou such a one as taketh for his god his own passion(or impulse)? Couldst thou be a disposer of affairs for him?
25/44 Or thinkest thou that most of them listen or understand? Theyare only like cattle;- nay, they are worse astray in Path.
25/45 Hast thou not turned thy vision to thy Lord?- How He dothprolong the shadow! If He willed, He could make it stationary! then do Wemake the sun its guide;
25/46 Then We draw it in towards Ourselves,- a contraction by easystages.
25/47 And He it is Who makes the Night as a Robe for you, and Sleepas Repose, and makes the Day (as it were) a Resurrection.
25/48 And He it is Who sends the winds as heralds of glad tidings,going before His mercy, and We send down pure water from the sky,-
25/49 That with it We may give life to a dead land, and slake thethirst of things We have created,- cattle and men in great numbers.
25/50 And We have distributed the (water) amongst them, in orderthat they may celebrate (our) praises, but most men are averse (to aught)but (rank) ingratitude.
25/51 Had it been Our Will, We could have sent a warner to everycentre of population.
25/52 Therefore listen not to the Unbelievers, but strive againstthem with the utmost strenuousness, with the (Qur'an).
25/53 It is He Who has let free the two bodies of flowing water: Onepalatable and sweet, and the other salt and bitter; yet has He made abarrier between them, a partition that is forbidden to be passed.
25/54 It is He Who has created man from water: then has Heestablished relationships of lineage and marriage: for thy Lord has power(over all things).
25/55 Yet do they worship, besides Allah, things that can neitherprofit them nor harm them: and the Misbeliever is a helper (of Evil),against his own Lord!
25/56 But thee We only sent to give glad tidings and admonition.
25/57 Say: "No reward do I ask of you for it but this: that each onewho will may take a (straight) Path to his Lord."
25/58 And put thy trust in Him Who lives and dies not; and celebratehis praise; and enough is He to be acquainted with the faults of Hisservants;-
25/59 He Who created the heavens and the earth and all that isbetween, in six days, and is firmly established on the Throne (ofAuthority): Allah Most Gracious: ask thou, then, about Him of any acquainted(with such things).
25/60 When it is said to them, "Prostrate to (Allah) Most Gracious!", theysay, "And what is (Allah) Most Gracious? Shall we prostrate to that which thoucommandest us?" And it increases their flight (from the Truth).
25/61 Blessed is He Who made constellations in the skies, and placedtherein a Lamp and a Moon giving light;
25/62 And it is He Who made the Night and the Day to follow eachother: for such as have the will to celebrate His praises or to show theirgratitude.
25/63 And the servants of (Allah) Most Gracious are those who walk onthe earth in humility, and when the ignorant address them, they say,"Peace!";
25/64 Those who spend the night in adoration of their Lord prostrateand standing;
25/65 Those who say, "Our Lord! avert from us the Wrath of Hell, forits Wrath is indeed an affliction grievous,-
25/66 "Evil indeed is it as an abode, and as a place to rest in";
25/67 Those who, when they spend, are not extravagant and notniggardly, but hold a just (balance) between those (extremes);
25/68 Those who invoke not, with Allah, any other god, nor slay suchlife as Allah has made sacred except for just cause, nor commit fornication;- and any that does this (not only) meets punishment.
25/69 (But) the Penalty on the Day of Judgment will be doubled tohim, and he will dwell therein in ignominy,-
25/70 Unless he repents, believes, and works righteous deeds, forAllah will change the evil of such persons into good, and Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful,
25/71 And whoever repents and does good has truly turned to Allah withan (acceptable) conversion;-
25/72 Those who witness no falsehood, and, if they pass by futility,they pass by it with honourable (avoidance);
25/73 Those who, when they are admonished with the Signs of theirLord, droop not down at them as if they were deaf or blind;
25/74 And those who pray, "Our Lord! Grant unto us wives andoffspring who will be the comfort of our eyes, and give us (the grace) tolead the righteous."
25/75 Those are the ones who will be rewarded with the highest placein heaven, because of their patient constancy: therein shall they be metwith salutations and peace,
25/76 Dwelling therein;- how beautiful an abode and place of rest!
25/77 Say (to the Rejecters): "My Lord is not uneasy because of youif ye call not on Him: But ye have indeed rejected (Him), and soon willcome the inevitable (punishment)!"
