41/1 Ha Mim:
41/2 A Revelation from (Allah), Most Gracious, Most Merciful;-
41/3 A Book, whereof the verses are explained in detail;- a Qur'anin Arabic, for people who understand;-
41/4 Giving good news and admonition: yet most of them turn away,and so they hear not.
41/5 They say: "Our hearts are under veils, (concealed) from thatto which thou dost invite us, and in our ears in a deafness, and between usand thee is a screen: so do thou (what thou wilt); for us, we shall do(what we will!)"
41/6 Say thou: "I am but a man like you: It is revealed to me byInspiration, that your Allah is one Allah: so stand true to Him, and ask forHis Forgiveness." And woe to those who join gods with Allah,-
41/7 Those who practise not regular Charity, and who even deny theHereafter.
41/8 For those who believe and work deeds of righteousness is areward that will never fail.
41/9 Say: Is it that ye deny Him Who created the earth in two Days?And do ye join equals with Him? He is the Lord of (all) the Worlds.
41/10 He set on the (earth), mountains standing firm, high above it,and bestowed blessings on the earth, and measure therein all things to givethem nourishment in due proportion, in four Days, in accordance with (theneeds of) those who seek (Sustenance).
41/11 Moreover He comprehended in His design the sky, and it hadbeen (as) smoke: He said to it and to the earth: "Come ye together,willingly or unwillingly." They said: "We do come (together), in willingobedience."
41/12 So He completed them as seven firmaments in two Days, and Heassigned to each heaven its duty and command. And We adorned the lowerheaven with lights, and (provided it) with guard. Such is the Decree of(Him) the Exalted in Might, Full of Knowledge.
41/13 But if they turn away, say thou: "I have warned you of astunning Punishment (as of thunder and lightning) like that which(overtook) the 'Ad and the Thamud!"
41/14 Behold, the messengers came to them, from before them and behindthem, (preaching): "Serve none but Allah." They said, "If our Lord had sopleased, He would certainly have sent down angels (to preach). Now wereject your mission (altogether)."
41/15 Now the 'Ad behaved arrogantly through the land, against (all)truth and reason, and said: "Who is superior to us in strength?" What! didthey not see that Allah, Who created them, was superior to them in strength?But they continued to reject Our Signs!
41/16 So We sent against them a furious Wind through days ofdisaster, that We might give them a taste of a Penalty of humiliation inthis life; but the Penalty of a Hereafter will be more humiliating still:and they will find no help.
41/17 As to the Thamud, We gave them Guidance, but they preferredblindness (of heart) to Guidance: so the stunning Punishment of humiliationseized them, because of what they had earned.
41/18 But We delivered those who believed and practisedrighteousness.
41/19 On the Day that the enemies of Allah will be gathered togetherto the Fire, they will be marched in ranks.
41/20 At length, when they reach the (Fire), their hearing, theirsight, and their skins will bear witness against them, as to (all) theirdeeds.
41/21 They will say to their skins: "Why bear ye witness againstus?" They will say: "Allah hath given us speech,- (He) Who giveth speech toeverything: He created you for the first time, and unto Him were ye toreturn.
41/22 "Ye did not seek to hide yourselves, lest your hearing, yoursight, and your skins should bear witness against you! But ye did thinkthat Allah knew not many of the things that ye used to do!
41/23 "But this thought of yours which ye did entertain concerningyour Lord, hath brought you to destruction, and (now) have ye become ofthose utterly lost!"
41/24 If, then, they have patience, the Fire will be a home forthem! and if they beg to be received into favour, into favour will they not(then) be received.
41/25 And We have destined for them intimate companions (of likenature), who made alluring to them what was before them and behind them;and the sentence among the previous generations of Jinns and men, who havepassed away, is proved against them; for they are utterly lost.
41/26 The Unbelievers say: "Listen not to this Qur'an, but talk atrandom in the midst of its (reading), that ye may gain the upper hand!"
41/27 But We will certainly give the Unbelievers a taste of a severePenalty, and We will requite them for the worst of their deeds.
41/28 Such is the requital of the enemies of Allah,- the Fire: thereinwill be for them the Eternal Home: a (fit) requital, for that they werewont to reject Our Signs.
41/29 And the Unbelievers will say: "Our Lord! Show us those, amongJinns and men, who misled us: We shall crush them beneath our feet, so thatthey become the vilest (before all)."
41/30 In the case of those who say, "Our Lord is Allah", and, further,stand straight and steadfast, the angels descend on them (from time totime): "Fear ye not!" (they suggest), "Nor grieve! but receive the GladTidings of the Garden (of Bliss), the which ye were promised!
41/31 "We are your protectors in this life and in the Hereafter:therein shall ye have all that your souls shall desire; therein shall yehave all that ye ask for!-
41/32 "A hospitable gift from one Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful!"
41/33 Who is better in speech than one who calls (men) to Allah, worksrighteousness, and says, "I am of those who bow in Islam"?
41/34 Nor can goodness and Evil be equal. Repel (Evil) with what isbetter: Then will he between whom and thee was hatred become as it were thyfriend and intimate!
41/35 And no one will be granted such goodness except those whoexercise patience and self-restraint,- none but persons of the greatestgood fortune.
41/36 And if (at any time) an incitement to discord is made to theeby the Evil One, seek refuge in Allah. He is the One Who hears and knows allthings.
41/37 Among His Signs are the Night and the Day, and the Sun and theMoon. Do not prostrate to the sun and the moon, but prostrate toAllah, Who created them, if it is Him ye wish to serve.
41/38 But is the (Unbelievers) are arrogant, (no matter): for in thepresence of thy Lord are those who celebrate His praises by night and byday. And they never flag (nor feel themselves above it).
41/39 And among His Signs in this: thou seest the earth barren anddesolate; but when We send down rain to it, it is stirred to life andyields increase. Truly, He Who gives life to the (dead) earth can surelygive life to (men) who are dead. For He has power over all things.
41/40 Those who pervert the Truth in Our Signs are not hidden fromUs. Which is better?- he that is cast into the Fire, or he that comes safethrough, on the Day of Judgment? Do what ye will: verily He seeth (clearly)all that ye do.
41/41 Those who reject the Message when it comes to them (are nothidden from Us). And indeed it is a Book of exalted power.
41/42 No falsehood can approach it from before or behind it: It issent down by One Full of Wisdom, Worthy of all Praise.
41/43 Nothing is said to thee that was not said to the messengersbefore thee: that thy lord has at his Command (all) forgiveness as well asa most Grievous Penalty.
41/44 Had We sent this as a Qur'an (in the language) other thanArabic, they would have said: "Why are not its verses explained in detail?What! (a Book) not in Arabic and (a Messenger an Arab?" Say: "It is a Guideand a Healing to those who believe; and for those who believe not, there isa deafness in their ears, and it is blindness in their (eyes): They are (asit were) being called from a place far distant!"
41/45 We certainly gave Moses the Book aforetime: but disputes arosetherein. Had it not been for a Word that went forth before from thy Lord,(their differences) would have been settled between them: but they remainedin suspicious disquieting doubt thereon.
41/46 Whoever works righteousness benefits his own soul; whoeverworks evil, it is against his own soul: nor is thy Lord ever unjust (in theleast) to His Servants.
41/47 To Him is referred the Knowledge of the Hour (of Judgment: Heknows all): No date-fruit comes out of its sheath, nor does a femaleconceive (within her womb) nor bring forth the Day that (Allah) will propoundto them the (question), "Where are the partners (ye attributed to Me?" Theywill say, "We do assure thee not one of us can bear witness!"
41/48 The (deities) they used to invoke aforetime will leave them inthe lurch, and they will perceive that they have no way of escape.
41/49 Man does not weary of asking for good (things), but if illtouches him, he gives up all hope (and) is lost in despair.
41/50 When we give him a taste of some Mercy from Ourselves, aftersome adversity has touched him, he is sure to say, "This is due to my(merit): I think not that the Hour (of Judgment) will (ever) beestablished;  but if I am brought back to my Lord, I have (much) good(stored) in His sight!" But We will show the Unbelievers the truth of allthat they did, and We shall give them the taste of a severe Penalty.
41/51 When We bestow favours on man, he turns away, and gets himselfremote on his side (instead of coming to Us); and when evil seizes him, (hecomes) full of prolonged prayer!
41/52 Say: "See ye if the (Revelation) is (really) from Allah, and yetdo ye reject it? Who is more astray than one who is in a schism far (fromany purpose)?"
41/53 Soon will We show them our Signs in the (furthest) regions (ofthe earth), and in their own souls, until it becomes manifest to them thatthis is the Truth. Is it not enough that thy Lord doth witness all things?
41/54 Ah indeed! Are they in doubt concerning the Meeting with theirLord? Ah indeed! It is He that doth encompass all things!
