22/1 O mankind! fear your Lord! for the convulsion of the Hour (ofJudgment) will be a thing terrible!
22/2 The Day ye shall see it, every mother giving suck shall forgether suckling-babe, and every pregnant female shall drop her load(unformed): thou shalt see mankind as in a drunken riot, yet not drunk: butdreadful will be the Wrath of Allah.
22/3 And yet among men there are such as dispute about Allah, withoutknowledge, and follow every evil one obstinate in rebellion!
22/4 About the (Evil One) it is decreed that whoever turns to himfor friendship, him will he lead astray, and he will guide him to thePenalty of the Fire.
22/5 O mankind! if ye have a doubt about the Resurrection,(consider) that We created you out of dust, then out of sperm, then out ofa leech-like clot, then out of a morsel of flesh, partly formed and partlyunformed, in order that We may manifest (our power) to you; and We causewhom We will to rest in the wombs for an appointed term, then do We bringyou out as babes, then (foster you) that ye may reach your age of fullstrength; and some of you are called to die, and some are sent back to thefeeblest old age, so that they know nothing after having known (much), and(further), thou seest the earth barren and lifeless, but when We pour downrain on it, it is stirred (to life), it swells, and it puts forth everykind of beautiful growth (in pairs).
22/6 This is so, because Allah is the Reality: it is He Who giveslife to the dead, and it is He Who has power over all things.
22/7 And verily the Hour will come: there can be no doubt about it,or about (the fact) that Allah will raise up all who are in the graves.
22/8 Yet there is among men such a one as disputes about Allah,without Knowledge, without Guidance, and without a Book of Enlightenment,-
22/9 (Disdainfully) bending his side, in order to lead (men) astrayfrom the Path of Allah: for him there is disgrace in this life, and on theDay of Judgment We shall make him taste the Penalty of burning (Fire).
22/10 (It will be said): "This is because of the deeds which thyhands sent forth, for verily Allah is not unjust to His servants.
22/11 There are among men some who serve Allah, as it were, on theverge: if good befalls them, they are, therewith, well content; but if atrial comes to them, they turn on their faces: they lose both this worldand the Hereafter: that is loss for all to see!
22/12 They call on such deities, besides Allah, as can neither hurtnor profit them: that is straying far indeed (from the Way)!
22/13 (Perhaps) they call on one whose hurt is nearer than hisprofit: evil, indeed, is the patron, and evil the companion (or help)!
22/14 Verily Allah will admit those who believe and work righteousdeeds, to Gardens, beneath which rivers flow: for Allah carries out all thatHe plans.
22/15 If any think that Allah will not help him (His Messenger) in thisworld and the Hereafter, let him stretch out a rope to the ceiling and cut(himself) off: then let him see whether his plan will remove  that whichenrages (him)!
22/16 Thus have We sent down Clear Signs; and verily Allah doth guidewhom He will!
22/17 Those who believe (in the Qur'an), those who follow the Jewish(scriptures), and the Sabians, Christians, Magians, and Polytheists,- Allahwill judge between them on the Day of Judgment: for Allah is witness of allthings.
22/18 Seest thou not that to Allah bow down in worship all things thatare in the heavens and on earth,- the sun, the moon, the stars; the hills,the trees, the animals; and a great number among mankind? But a greatnumber are (also) such as are fit for Punishment: and such as Allah shalldisgrace,- None can raise to honour: for Allah carries out all that Hewills.
22/19 These two antagonists dispute with each other about theirLord: But those who deny (their Lord),- for them will be cut out a garmentof Fire: over their heads will be poured out boiling water.
22/20 With it will be scalded what is within their bodies, as wellas (their) skins.
22/21 In addition there will be maces of iron (to punish) them.
22/22 Every time they wish to get away therefrom, from anguish, theywill be forced back therein, and (it will be said), "Taste ye the Penaltyof Burning!"
22/23 Allah will admit those who believe and work righteous deeds, toGardens beneath which rivers flow: they shall be adorned therein withbracelets of gold and pearls; and their garments there will be of silk.
22/24 For they have been guided (in this life) to the purest ofspeeches; they have been guided to the Path of Him Who is Worthy of (all)Praise.
22/25 As to those who have rejected (Allah), and would keep back (men)from the Way of Allah, and from the Sacred Mosque, which We have made (open)to (all) men - equal is the dweller there and the visitor from the country- and any whose purpose therein is profanity or wrong-doing - them will Wecause to taste of a most Grievous Penalty.
22/26 Behold! We gave the site, to Abraham, of the (Sacred) House,(saying): "Associate not anything (in worship) with Me; and sanctify MyHouse for those who compass it round, or stand up, or bow, or prostratethemselves (therein in prayer).
22/27 "And proclaim the Pilgrimage among men: they will come to theeon foot and (mounted) on every kind of camel, lean on account of journeysthrough deep and distant mountain highways;
22/28 "That they may witness the benefits (provided) for them, andcelebrate the name of Allah, through the Days appointed, over the cattlewhich He has provided for them (for sacrifice): then eat ye thereof andfeed the distressed ones in want.
22/29 "Then let them complete the rites prescribed for them, performtheir vows, and (again) circumambulate the Ancient House."
22/30 Such (is the Pilgrimage): whoever honours the sacred rites ofAllah, for him it is good in the Sight of his Lord. Lawful to you (for foodin Pilgrimage) are cattle, except those mentioned to you (as exception):but shun the abomination of idols, and shun the word that is false,-
22/31 Being true in faith to Allah, and never assigning partners toHim: if anyone assigns partners to Allah, is as if he had fallen from heavenand been snatched up by birds, or the wind had swooped (like a bird on itsprey) and thrown him into a far-distant place.
22/32 Such (is his state): and whoever holds in honour the symbolsof Allah, (in the sacrifice of animals), such (honour) should come truly frompiety of heart.
22/33 In them ye have benefits for a term appointed: in the endtheir place of sacrifice is near the Ancient House.
22/34 To every people did We appoint rites (of sacrifice), that theymight celebrate the name of Allah over the sustenance He gave them fromanimals (fit for food). But your god is One God: submit then your wills toHim (in Islam): and give thou the good news to those who humblethemselves,-
22/35 To those whose hearts when Allah is mentioned, are filled withfear, who show patient perseverance over their afflictions, keep up regularprayer, and spend (in charity) out of what We have bestowed upon them.
22/36 The sacrificial camels we have made for you as among thesymbols from Allah: in them is (much) good for you: then pronounce the nameof Allah over them as they line up (for sacrifice): when they are down ontheir sides (after slaughter), eat ye thereof, and feed such as (beg notbut) live in contentment, and such as beg with due humility: thus have Wemade animals subject to you, that ye may be grateful.
22/37 It is not their meat nor their blood, that reaches Allah: it isyour piety that reaches Him: He has thus made them subject to you, that yemay glorify Allah for His Guidance to you and proclaim the good news to allwho do right.
22/38 Verily Allah will defend (from ill) those who believe: verily,Allah loveth not any that is a traitor to faith, or show ingratitude.
22/39 To those against whom war is made, permission is given (tofight), because they are wronged;- and verily, Allah is most powerful fortheir aid;-
22/40 (They are) those who have been expelled from their homes indefiance of right,- (for no cause) except  that they say, "our Lord isAllah". Did not Allah check one set of people by means of another, there wouldsurely have been pulled down monasteries, churches, synagogues, andmosques, in which the name of Allah is commemorated in abundant measure. Allahwill certainly aid those who aid his (cause);- for verily Allah is full ofStrength, Exalted in Might, (able to enforce His Will).
22/41 (They are) those who, if We establish them in the land,establish regular prayer and give regular charity, enjoin the right andforbid wrong: with Allah rests the end (and decision) of (all) affairs.
22/42 If they treat thy (mission) as false, so did the peoplesbefore them (with their prophets),- the People of Noah, and 'Ad andThamud;
22/43 Those of Abraham and Lut;
22/44 And the Companions of the Madyan People; and Moses wasrejected (in the same way). But I granted respite to the Unbelievers, and(only) after that did I punish them: but how (terrible) was my rejection(of them)!
22/45 How many populations have We destroyed, which were given towrong-doing? They tumbled down on their roofs. And how many wells are lyingidle and neglected, and castles lofty and well-built?
22/46 Do they not travel through the land, so that their hearts (andminds) may thus learn wisdom and their ears may thus learn to hear? Trulyit is not their eyes that are blind, but their hearts which are in theirbreasts.
22/47 Yet they ask thee to hasten on the Punishment! But Allah willnot fail in His Promise. Verily a Day in the sight of thy Lord is like athousand years of your reckoning.
22/48 And to how many populations did I give respite, which weregiven to wrong-doing? in the end I punished them. To me is the destination(of all).
22/49 Say: "O men! I am (sent) to you only to give a Clear Warning:
22/50 "Those who believe and work righteousness, for them isforgiveness and a sustenance most generous.
22/51 "But those who strive against Our Signs, to frustrate them,-they will be Companions of the Fire."
22/52 Never did We send a messenger or a prophet before thee, but,when he framed a desire, Satan threw some (vanity) into his desire: but Allahwill cancel anything (vain) that Satan throws in, and Allah will confirm (andestablish) His Signs: for Allah is full of Knowledge and Wisdom:
22/53 That He may make the suggestions thrown in by Satan, but atrial for those in whose hearts is a disease and who are hardened of heart:verily the wrong-doers are in a schism far (from the Truth):
22/54 And that those on whom knowledge has been bestowed may learnthat the (Qur'an) is the Truth from thy Lord, and that they may believetherein, and their hearts may be made humbly (open) to it: for verily Allahis the Guide of those who believe, to the Straight Way.
22/55 Those who reject Faith will not cease to be in doubtconcerning (Revelation) until the Hour (of Judgment) comes suddenly uponthem, or there comes to them the Penalty of a Day of Disaster.
22/56 On that Day of Dominion will be that of Allah: He will judgebetween them: so those who believe and work righteous deeds will be inGardens of Delight.
22/57 And for those who reject Faith and deny our Signs, there willbe a humiliating Punishment.
22/58 Those who leave their homes in the cause of Allah, and are thenslain or die,- On them will Allah bestow verily a goodly Provision: Truly Allahis He Who bestows the best provision.
22/59 Verily He will admit them to a place with which they shall bewell pleased: for Allah is All-Knowing, Most Forbearing.
22/60 That (is so). And if one has retaliated to no greater extentthan the injury he received, and is again set upon inordinately, Allah willhelp him: for Allah is One that blots out (sins) and forgives (again andagain).
22/61 That is because Allah merges night into day, and He merges dayinto night, and verily it is Allah Who hears and sees (all things).
22/62 That is because Allah - He is the Reality; and those besides Himwhom they invoke,- they are but vain Falsehood: verily Allah is He, MostHigh, Most Great.
22/63 Seest thou not that Allah sends down rain from the sky, andforthwith the earth becomes clothed with green? for Allah is He Whounderstands the finest mysteries, and is well-acquainted (with them).
22/64 To Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: forverily Allah,- He is free of all wants, Worthy of all Praise.
22/65 Seest thou not that Allah has made subject to you (men) all thatis on the earth, and the ships that sail through the sea by His Command? Hewithholds the sky (rain) from failing on the earth except by His leave: forAllah is Most Kind and Most Merciful to man.
22/66 It is He Who gave you life, will cause you to die, and willagain give you life: Truly man is a most ungrateful creature!
22/67 To every People have We appointed rites and ceremonies whichthey must follow: let them not then dispute with thee on the matter, but dothou invite (them) to thy Lord: for thou art assuredly on the Right Way.
22/68 If they do wrangle with thee, say, "Allah knows best what it isye are doing."
22/69 "Allah will judge between you on the Day of Judgment concerningthe matters in which ye differ."
22/70 Knowest thou not that Allah knows all that is in heaven and onearth? Indeed it is all in a Record, and that is easy for Allah.
22/71 Yet they worship, besides Allah, things for which no authorityhas been sent down to them, and of which they have (really) no knowledge:for those that do wrong there is no helper.
22/72 When Our Clear Signs are rehearsed to them, thou wilt notice adenial on the faces of the Unbelievers! they nearly attack with violencethose who rehearse Our Signs to them. Say, "Shall I tell you of something(far) worse than these Signs? It is the Fire (of Hell)! Allah has promised itto the Unbelievers! and evil is that destination!"
22/73 O men! Here is a parable set forth! listen to it! Those onwhom, besides Allah, ye call, cannot create (even) a fly, if they all mettogether for the purpose! and if the fly should snatch away anything fromthem, they would have no power to release it from the fly. Feeble are thosewho petition and those whom they petition!
22/74 No just estimate have they made of Allah: for Allah is He Who isstrong and able to Carry out His Will.
22/75 Allah chooses messengers from angels and from men for Allah is HeWho hears and sees (all things).
22/76 He knows what is before them and what is behind them: and toAllah go back all questions (for decision).
22/77 O ye who believe! bow down, prostrate yourselves, and adoreyour Lord; and do good; that ye may prosper.
22/78 And strive in His cause as ye ought to strive, (with sincerityand under discipline). He has chosen you, and has imposed no difficultieson you in religion; it is the cult of your father Abraham. It is He Who hasnamed you Muslims, both before and in this (Revelation); that the Messengermay be a witness for you, and ye be witnesses for mankind! So establishregular Prayer, give regular Charity, and hold fast to Allah! He is yourProtector - the Best to protect and the Best to help!
