57/1 Whatever is in the heavens and on earth,- let it declare thePraises and Glory of Allah: for He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
57/2 To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth: Itis He Who gives Life and Death; and He has Power over all things.
57/3 He is the First and the Last, the Evident and the Immanent:and He has full knowledge of all things.
57/4 He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in Six Days,and is moreover firmly established on the Throne (of Authority). He knowswhat enters within the earth and what comes forth out of it, what comesdown from heaven and what mounts up to it. And He is with you wheresoeverye may be. And Allah sees well all that ye do.
57/5 To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth: andall affairs are referred back to Allah.
57/6 He merges Night into Day, and He merges Day into Night; and Hehas full knowledge of the secrets of (all) hearts.
57/7 Believe in Allah and His messenger, and spend (in charity) out ofthe (substance) whereof He has made you heirs. For, those of you whobelieve and spend (in charity),- for them is a great Reward.
57/8 What cause have ye why ye should not believe in Allah?- and theMessenger invites you to believe in your Lord, and has indeed taken yourCovenant, if ye are men of Faith.
57/9 He is the One Who sends to His Servant Manifest Signs, that Hemay lead you from the depths of Darkness into the Light and verily Allah isto you most kind and Merciful.
57/10 And what cause have ye why ye should not spend in the cause ofAllah?- For to Allah belongs the heritage of the heavens and the earth.  Notequal among you are those who spent (freely) and fought, before theVictory, (with those who did so later). Those are higher in rank than thosewho spent (freely) and fought afterwards. But to all has Allah promised agoodly (reward). And Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do.
57/11 Who is he that will Loan to Allah a beautiful loan? for (Allah)will increase it manifold to his credit, and he will have (besides) aliberal Reward.
57/12 One Day shalt thou see the believing men and the believingwomen- how their Light runs forward before them and by their right hands:(their greeting will be): "Good News for you this Day! Gardens beneathwhich flow rivers! to dwell therein for aye! This is indeed the highestAchievement!"
57/13 One Day will the Hypocrites- men and women - say to theBelievers: "Wait for us!  Let  us borrow (a Light) from your Light!" Itwill be said: "Turn ye back to your rear! then seek a Light (where yecan)!" So a wall will be put up betwixt them, with a gate therein. Withinit will be Mercy throughout, and without it, all alongside, will be (Wrathand) Punishment!
57/14 (Those without) will call out, "Were we not with you?" (Theothers) will reply, "True! but ye led yourselves into temptation; ye lookedforward (to our ruin); ye doubted (Allah's Promise); and (your false) desiresdeceived you; until there issued the Command of Allah. And the Deceiverdeceived you in respect of Allah.
57/15 "This Day shall no ransom be accepted of you, nor of those whorejected Allah." Your abode is the Fire: that is the proper place to claimyou: and an evil refuge it is!"
57/16 Has not the Time arrived for the Believers that their heartsin all humility should engage in the remembrance of Allah and of the Truthwhich has been revealed (to them), and that they should not become likethose to whom was given Revelation aforetime, but long ages passed overthem and their hearts grew hard? For many among them are rebellioustransgressors.
57/17 Know ye (all) that Allah giveth life to the earth after itsdeath! already have We shown the Signs plainly to you, that ye may learnwisdom.
57/18 For those who give in Charity, men and women, and loan to Allaha Beautiful Loan, it shall be increased manifold (to their credit), andthey shall have (besides) a liberal reward.
57/19 And those who believe in Allah and His messengers- they are theSincere (lovers of Truth), and the witnesses (who testify), in the eyes oftheir Lord: They shall have their Reward and their Light. But those whoreject Allah and deny Our Signs,- they are the Companions of Hell-Fire.
57/20 Know ye (all), that the life of this world is but play andamusement, pomp and mutual boasting and multiplying, (in rivalry) amongyourselves, riches and children. Here is a similitude: How rain and thegrowth which it brings forth, delight (the hearts of) the tillers;  soon itwithers; thou wilt see it grow yellow; then it becomes dry and crumblesaway. But in the Hereafter is a Penalty severe (for the devotees of wrong).And Forgiveness from Allah and (His) Good Pleasure (for the devotees of Allah).And what is the life of this world, but goods and chattels of deception?
57/21 Be ye foremost (in seeking) Forgiveness from your Lord, and aGarden (of Bliss), the width whereof is as the width of heaven and earth,prepared for those who believe in Allah and His messengers: that is the Graceof Allah, which He bestows on whom he pleases: and Allah is the Lord of Graceabounding.
57/22 No misfortune can happen on earth or in your souls but isrecorded in a decree before We bring it into existence: That is truly easyfor Allah:
57/23 In order that ye may not despair over matters that pass youby, nor exult over favours bestowed upon you. For Allah loveth not anyvainglorious boaster,-
57/24 Such persons as are covetous and commend covetousness to men.And if any turn back (from Allah's Way), verily Allah is Free of all Needs,Worthy of all Praise.
57/25 We sent aforetime our messengers with Clear Signs and sent downwith them the Book and the Balance (of Right and Wrong), that men may standforth in justice; and We sent down Iron, in which is (material for) mightywar, as well as many benefits for mankind, that Allah may test who it is thatwill help, Unseen, Him and His messengers: For Allah is Full of Strength,Exalted in Might (and able to enforce His Will).
57/26 And We sent Noah and Abraham, and established in their lineProphethood and Revelation: and some of them were on right guidance. Butmany of them became rebellious transgressors.
57/27 Then, in their wake, We followed them up with (others of) Ourmessengers: We sent after them Jesus the son of Mary, and bestowed on him theGospel; and We ordained in the hearts of those who followed him Compassionand Mercy. But the Monasticism which they invented for themselves, We didnot prescribe for them: (We commanded) only the seeking for the GoodPleasure of Allah; but that they did not foster as they should have done. YetWe bestowed, on those among them who believed, their (due) reward, but manyof them are rebellious transgressors.
57/28 O ye that believe! Fear Allah, and believe in His Messenger, andHe will bestow on you a double portion of His Mercy: He will provide foryou a Light by which ye shall walk (straight in your path), and He willforgive you (your past): for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
57/29 That the People of the Book may know that they have no powerwhatever over the Grace of Allah, that (His) Grace is (entirely) in His Hand,to bestow it on whomsoever He wills. For Allah is the Lord of Graceabounding.
