59/1 Whatever is in the heavens and on earth, let it declare thePraises and Glory of Allah: for He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
59/2 It is He Who got out the Unbelievers among the People of theBook from their homes at the first gathering (of the forces). Little did yethink that they would get out: And they thought that their fortresses woulddefend them from Allah! But the (Wrath of) Allah came to them from quartersfrom which they little expected (it), and cast terror into their hearts, sothat they destroyed their dwellings by their own hands and the hands of theBelievers, take warning, then, O ye with eyes (to see)!
59/3 And had it not been that Allah had decreed banishment for them,He would certainly have punished them in this world: And in the Hereafterthey shall (certainly) have the Punishment of the Fire.
59/4 That is because they resisted Allah and His Messenger: and if anyone resists Allah, verily Allah is severe in Punishment.
59/5 Whether ye cut down (O ye Muslim!) The tender palm-trees, orye left them standing on their roots, it was by leave of Allah, and in orderthat He might cover with shame the rebellious transgresses.
59/6 What Allah has bestowed on His Messenger (and taken away) fromthem - for this ye made no expedition with either cavalry or camelry: butAllah gives power to His messengers over any He pleases: and Allah has power overall things.
59/7 What Allah has bestowed on His Messenger (and taken away) from thepeople of the townships,- belongs to Allah,- to His Messenger and to kindredand orphans, the needy and the wayfarer; In order that it may not (merely)make a circuit between the wealthy among you. So take what the Messengerassigns to you, and deny yourselves that which he withholds from you. Andfear Allah; for Allah is strict in Punishment.
59/8 (Some part is due) to the indigent Muhajirs, those who wereexpelled from their homes and their property, while seeking Grace from Allahand (His) Good Pleasure, and aiding Allah and His Messenger: such are indeedthe sincere ones:-
59/9 But those who before them, had homes (in Medina) and hadadopted the Faith,- show their affection to such as came to them forrefuge, and entertain no desire in their hearts for things given to the(latter), but give them preference over themselves, even though poverty wastheir (own lot). And those saved from the covetousness of their own souls,-they are the ones that achieve prosperity.
59/10 And those who came after them say: "Our Lord! Forgive us, andour brethren who came before us into the Faith, and leave not, in ourhearts, rancour (or sense of injury) against those who have believed. OurLord! Thou art indeed Full of Kindness, Most Merciful."
59/11 Hast thou not observed the Hypocrites say to theirmisbelieving brethren among the People of the Book? - "If ye are expelled,we too will go out with you, and we will never hearken to any one in youraffair; and if ye are attacked (in fight) we will help you". But Allah iswitness that they are indeed liars.
59/12 If they are expelled, never will they go out with them; and ifthey are attacked (in fight), they will never help them; and if they dohelp them, they will turn their backs; so they will receive no help.
59/13 Of a truth ye are stronger (than they) because of the terrorin their hearts, (sent) by Allah. This is because they are men devoid ofunderstanding.
59/14 They will not fight you (even) together, except in fortifiedtownships, or from behind walls. Strong is their fighting (spirit) amongstthemselves: thou wouldst think they were united, but their hearts aredivided: that is because they are a people devoid of wisdom.
59/15 Like those who lately preceded them, they have tasted the evilresult of their conduct; and (in the Hereafter there is) for them agrievous Penalty;-
59/16 (Their allies deceived them), like the Evil One, when he saysto man, "Deny Allah": but when (man) denies Allah, (the Evil One) says, "I amfree of thee: I do fear Allah, the Lord of the Worlds!"
59/17 The end of both will be that they will go into the Fire,dwelling therein for ever. Such is the reward of the wrong-doers.
59/18 O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and let every soul look to what(provision) He has sent forth for the morrow. Yea, fear Allah: for Allah iswell-acquainted with (all) that ye do.
59/19 And be ye not like those who forgot Allah; and He made themforget their own souls! Such are the rebellious transgressors!
59/20 Not equal are the Companions of the Fire and the Companions ofthe Garden: it is the Companions of the Garden, that will achieveFelicity.
59/21 Had We sent down this Qur'an on a mountain, verily, thouwouldst have seen it humble itself and cleave asunder for fear of Allah.Such are the similitudes which We propound to men, that they may reflect.
59/22 Allah is He, than Whom there is no other god;- Who knows (allthings) both secret and open; He, Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
59/23 Allah is He, than Whom there is no other god;- the Sovereign,the Holy One, the Source of Peace (and Perfection),  the Guardian of Faith,the Preserver of Safety,  the Exalted in Might, the Irresistible, theSupreme: Glory to Allah! (High is He) above the partners they attribute toHim.
59/24 He is Allah, the Creator, the Evolver, the Bestower of Forms (orColours). To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names: whatever is in theheavens and on earth, doth declare His Praises and Glory: and He is theExalted in Might, the Wise.
