49/1 O Ye who believe! Put not yourselves forward before Allah andHis Messenger; but fear Allah: for Allah is He Who hears and knows all things.
49/2 O ye who believe! Raise not your voices above the voice of theProphet, nor speak aloud to him in talk, as ye may speak aloud to oneanother, lest your deeds become vain and ye perceive not.
49/3 Those that lower their voices in the presence of Allah'sMessenger,- their hearts has Allah tested for piety: for them is Forgivenessand a great Reward.
49/4 Those who shout out to thee from without the inner apartments- most of them lack understanding.
49/5 If only they had patience until thou couldst come out to them,it would be best for them: but Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
49/6 O ye who believe! If a wicked person comes to you with anynews, ascertain the truth, lest ye harm people unwittingly, and afterwardsbecome full of repentance for what ye have done.
49/7 And know that among you is Allah's Messenger: were he, in manymatters, to follow your (wishes), ye would certainly fall into misfortune:But Allah has endeared the Faith to you, and has made it beautiful in yourhearts, and He has made hateful to you Unbelief, wickedness, and rebellion:such indeed are those who walk in righteousness;-
49/8 A Grace and Favour from Allah; and Allah is full of Knowledge andWisdom.
49/9 If two parties among the Believers fall into a quarrel, makeye peace between them: but if one of them transgresses beyond boundsagainst the other, then fight ye (all) against the one that transgressesuntil it complies with the command of Allah; but if it complies, thenmake peace between them with justice, and be fair: for Allah loves thosewho are fair (and just).
49/10 The Believers are but a single Brotherhood: So make peace andreconciliation between your two (contending) brothers; and fear Allah, thatye may receive Mercy.
49/11 O ye who believe! Let not some men among you laugh at others:It may be that the (latter) are better than the (former): Nor let somewomen laugh at others: It may be that the (latter are better than the(former): Nor defame nor be sarcastic to each other, nor call each other by(offensive) nicknames: Ill-seeming is a name connoting wickedness, (to beused of one) after he has believed: And those who do not desist are(indeed) doing wrong.
49/12 O ye who believe! Avoid suspicion as much (as possible): forsuspicion in some cases is a sin: And spy not on each other behind theirbacks. Would any of you like to eat the flesh of his dead brother? Nay, yewould abhor it...But fear Allah: For Allah is Oft-Returning, Most Merciful.
49/13 O mankind! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and afemale, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each other(not that ye may despise (each other). Verily the most honoured of you inthe sight of Allah is (he who is) the most righteous of you. And Allah has fullknowledge and is well acquainted (with all things).
49/14 The desert Arabs say, "We believe." Say, "Ye have no faith;but ye (only)say, 'We have submitted our wills to Allah,' For not yet hasFaith entered your hearts. But if ye obey Allah and His Messenger, He will notbelittle aught of your deeds: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
49/15 Only those are Believers who have believed in Allah and HisMessenger, and have never since doubted, but have striven with theirbelongings and their persons in the Cause of Allah: Such are the sincereones.
49/16 Say: "What! Will ye instruct Allah about your religion? But Allahknows all that is in the heavens and on earth: He has full knowledge of allthings.
49/17 They impress on thee as a favour that they have embracedIslam. Say, "Count not your Islam as a favour upon me: Nay, Allah hasconferred a favour upon you that He has guided you to the faith, if ye betrue and sincere.
49/18 "Verily Allah knows the secrets of the heavens and the earth:and Allah Sees well all that ye do."
