11/1 A. L. R. (This is) a Book, with verses basic or fundamental(of established meaning), further explained in detail,- from One Who isWise and Well-acquainted (with all things):
11/2 (It teacheth) that ye should worship none but Allah. (Say):"Verily I am (sent) unto you from Him to warn and to bring glad tidings:
11/3 "(And to preach thus), 'Seek ye the forgiveness of your Lord,and turn to Him in repentance; that He may grant you enjoyment, good (andtrue), for a term appointed, and bestow His abounding grace on all whoabound in merit! But if ye turn away, then I fear for you the penalty of agreat day:
11/4 'To Allah is your return, and He hath power over all things.'"
11/5 Behold! they fold up their hearts, that they may lie hid fromHim! Ah even when they cover themselves with their garments, He knowethwhat they conceal, and what they reveal: for He knoweth well the (inmostsecrets) of the hearts.
11/6 There is no moving creature on earth but its sustenancedependeth on Allah: He knoweth the time and place of its definite abode andits temporary deposit: All is in a clear Record.
11/7 He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in six Days -and His Throne was over the waters - that He might try you, which of you isbest in conduct. But if thou wert to say to them, "Ye shall indeed beraised up after death", the Unbelievers would be sure to say, "This isnothing but obvious sorcery!"
11/8 If We delay the penalty for them for a definite term, they aresure to say, "What keeps it back?" Ah! On the day it (actually) reachesthem, nothing will turn it away from them, and they will be completelyencircled by that which they used to mock at!
11/9 If We give man a taste of Mercy from Ourselves, and thenwithdraw it from him, behold! he is in despair and (falls into) blasphemy.
11/10 But if We give him a taste of (Our) favours after adversityhath touched him, he is sure to say, "All evil has departed from me:"Behold! he falls into exultation and pride.
11/11 Not so do those who show patience and constancy, and workrighteousness; for them is forgiveness (of sins) and a great reward.
11/12 Perchance thou mayest (feel the inclination) to give up a partof what is revealed unto thee, and thy heart feeleth straitened lest theysay, "Why is not a treasure sent down unto him, or why does not an angelcome down with him?" But thou art there only to warn! It is Allah thatarrangeth all affairs!
11/13 Or they may say, "He forged it," Say, "Bring ye then ten surasforged, like unto it, and call (to your aid) whomsoever ye can, other thanAllah!- If ye speak the truth!
11/14 "If then they (your false gods) answer not your (call), knowye that this revelation is sent down (replete) with the knowledge of Allah,and that there is no god but He! will ye even then submit (to Islam)?"
11/15 Those who desire the life of the present and its glitter,- tothem we shall pay (the price of) their deeds therein,- without diminution.
11/16 They are those for whom there is nothing in the Hereafter butthe Fire: vain are the designs they frame therein, and of no effect and thedeeds that they do!
11/17 Can they be (like) those who accept a Clear (Sign) from theirLord, and whom a witness from Himself doth teach, as did the Book of Mosesbefore it,- a guide and a mercy? They believe therein; but those of theSects that reject it,- the Fire will be their promised meeting-place. Benot then in doubt thereon: for it is the truth from thy Lord: yet manyamong men do not believe!
11/18 Who doth more wrong than those who invent a life against Allah?They will be turned back to the presence of their Lord, and the witnesseswill say, "These are the ones who lied against their Lord! Behold! theCurse of Allah is on those who do wrong!-
11/19 "Those who would hinder (men) from the path of Allah and wouldseek in it something crooked: these were they who denied the Hereafter!"
11/20 They will in no wise frustrate (His design) on earth, nor havethey protectors besides Allah! Their penalty will be doubled! They lost thepower to hear, and they did not see!
11/21 They are the ones who have lost their own souls: and the(fancies) they invented have left them in the lurch!
11/22 Without a doubt, these are the very ones who will lose most inthe Hereafter!
11/23 But those who believe and work righteousness, and humblethemselves before their Lord,- They will be companions of the gardens, todwell therein for aye!
11/24 These two kinds (of men) may be compared to the blind anddeaf, and those who can see and hear well. Are they equal when compared?Will ye not then take heed?
11/25 We sent Noah to his people (with a mission): "I have come toyou with a Clear Warning:
11/26 "That ye serve none but Allah: Verily I do fear for you thepenalty of a grievous day."
11/27 But the chiefs of the Unbelievers among his people said: "Wesee (in) thee nothing but a man like ourselves:  Nor do we see that anyfollow thee but the meanest among us, in judgment immature:  Nor do we seein you (all) any merit above us: in fact we thing ye are liars!"
11/28 He said: "O my people! See ye if (it be that) I have a ClearSign from my Lord, and that He hath sent Mercy unto me from His ownpresence, but that the Mercy hath been obscured from your sight? shall wecompel you to accept it when ye are averse to it?
11/29 "And O my people! I ask you for no wealth in return: my rewardis from none but Allah: But I will not drive away (in contempt) those whobelieve: for verily they are to meet their Lord, and ye I see are theignorant ones!
11/30 "And O my people! who would help me against Allah if I drovethem away? Will ye not then take heed?
11/31 "I tell you not that with me are the treasures of Allah, nor doI know what is hidden, nor claim I to be an angel. Nor yet do I say, ofthose whom your eyes do despise that Allah will not grant them (all) that isgood:  Allah knoweth best what is in their souls: I should, if I did, indeedbe a wrong-doer."
11/32 They said: "O Noah! thou hast disputed with us, and (much)hast thou prolonged the dispute with us: now bring upon us what thouthreatenest us with, if thou speakest the truth!?"
11/33 He said: "Truly, Allah will bring it on you if He wills,- andthen, ye will not be able to frustrate it!
11/34 "Of no profit will be my counsel to you, much as I desire togive you (good) counsel, if it be that Allah willeth to leave you astray: Heis your Lord! and to Him will ye return!"
11/35 Or do they say, "He has forged it"? Say: "If I had forged it,on me were my sin! and I am free of the sins of  which ye are guilty!
11/36 It was revealed to Noah: "None of thy people will believeexcept those who have believed already! So grieve no longer over their(evil) deeds.
11/37 "But construct an Ark under Our eyes and Our inspiration, andaddress Me no (further) on behalf of those who are in sin: for they areabout to be overwhelmed (in the Flood)."
11/38 Forthwith he (starts) constructing the Ark: Every time thatthe chiefs of his people passed by him,  they threw ridicule on him. Hesaid: "If ye ridicule us now, we (in our turn) can look down on you withridicule likewise!
11/39 "But soon will ye know who it is on whom will descend apenalty that will cover them with shame,- on whom will be unloosed apenalty lasting:"
11/40 At length, behold! there came Our command, and the fountainsof the earth gushed forth! We said: "Embark therein, of each kind two, maleand female, and your family - except those against whom the word hasalready gone forth,- and the Believers." but only a few believed with him.
11/41 So he said: "Embark ye on the Ark, In the name of Allah, whetherit move or be at rest! For my Lord is, be sure, Oft-Forgiving, MostMerciful!"
11/42 So the Ark floated with them on the waves (towering) likemountains, and Noah called out to his son, who had separated himself (fromthe rest): "O my son! embark with us, and be not with the unbelievers!"
11/43 The son replied: "I will betake myself to some mountain: itwill save me from the water." Noah said: "This day nothing can save, fromthe command of Allah, any but those on whom He hath mercy! "And the wavescame between them, and the son was among those overwhelmed in the Flood.
11/44 Then the word went forth: "O earth! swallow up thy water, andO sky! Withhold (thy rain)!" and the water abated, and the matter wasended. The Ark rested on Mount Judi, and the word went forth: "Away withthose who do wrong!"
11/45 And Noah called upon his Lord, and said: "O my Lord! surely myson is of my family! and Thy promise is true, and Thou art the justest ofJudges!"
11/46 He said: "O Noah! He is not of thy family: For his conduct isunrighteous. So ask not of Me that of which thou hast no knowledge!  I givethee counsel, lest thou act like the ignorant!"
11/47 Noah said: "O my Lord! I do seek refuge with Thee, lest I askThee for that of which I have no knowledge. And unless thou forgive me andhave Mercy on me, I should indeed be lost!"
11/48 The word came: "O Noah! Come down (from the Ark) with peacefrom Us, and blessing on thee and on some of the peoples (who will spring)from those with thee: but (there will be other) peoples to whom We shallgrant their pleasures (for a time), but in the end will a grievous penaltyreach them from Us."
11/49 Such are some of the stories of the unseen, which We haverevealed unto thee: before this, neither thou nor thy people knew them. Sopersevere patiently: for the End is for those who are righteous.
11/50 To the 'Ad People (We sent) Hud, one of their own brethren. Hesaid: "O my people! worship Allah! ye have no other god but Him. (Your othergods) ye do nothing but invent!
11/51 "O my people! I ask of you no reward for this (Message). Myreward is from none but Him who created me: Will ye not then understand?
11/52 "And O my people! Ask forgiveness of your Lord, and turn toHim (in repentance): He will send you the skies pouring abundant rain, andadd strength to your strength: so turn ye not back in sin!"
11/53 They said: "O Hud! No Clear (Sign) that hast thou brought us,and we are not the ones to desert our gods on thy word! Nor shall webelieve in thee!
11/54 "We say nothing but that (perhaps) some of our gods may haveseized thee with imbecility." He said: "I call Allah to witness, and do yebear witness, that I am free from the sin of ascribing, to Him,
11/55 "Other gods as partners! so scheme (your worst) against me,all of you, and give me no respite.
11/56 "I put my trust in Allah, My Lord and your Lord! There is not amoving creature, but He hath grasp of its fore-lock. Verily, it is my Lordthat is on a straight Path.
11/57 "If ye turn away,- I (at least) have conveyed the Message withwhich I was sent to you. My Lord will make another people to succeed you,and you will not harm Him in the least. For my Lord hath care and watchover all things."
11/58 So when Our decree issued, We saved Hud and those who believedwith him, by (special) Grace from Ourselves: We saved them from a severepenalty.
11/59 Such were the 'Ad People: they rejected the Signs of theirLord and Cherisher; disobeyed His messengers; And followed the command ofevery powerful, obstinate transgressor.
11/60 And they were pursued by a Curse in this life,- and on the Dayof Judgment. Ah! Behold! for the 'Ad rejected their Lord and Cherisher!Ah! Behold! removed (from sight) were 'Ad the people of Hud!
11/61 To the Thamud People (We sent) Salih, one of their ownbrethren. He said: "O my people! Worship Allah: ye have no other god but Him.It is He Who hath produced you from the earth and settled you therein: thenask forgiveness of Him, and turn to Him (in repentance): for my Lord is(always) near, ready to answer."
11/62 They said: "O Salih! thou hast been of us! a centre of ourhopes hitherto! dost thou (now) forbid us the worship of what our fathersworshipped? But we are really in suspicious (disquieting) doubt as to thatto which thou invitest us."
11/63 He said: "O my people! do ye see? if I have a Clear (Sign)from my Lord and He hath sent Mercy unto me from Himself,- who then canhelp me against Allah if I were to disobey Him? What then would ye add to my(portion) but perdition?
11/64 "And O my people! This she-camel of Allah is a symbol to you:leave her to feed on Allah's (free) earth, and inflict no harm on her, or aswift penalty will seize you!"
11/65 But they did ham-string her. So he said: "Enjoy yourselves inyour homes for three days: (Then will be your ruin): (Behold) there apromise not to be belied!"
11/66 When Our Decree issued, We saved Salih and those who believedwith him, by (special) Grace from Ourselves - and from the Ignominy of thatday. For thy Lord - He is the Strong One, and able to enforce His Will.
11/67 The (mighty) Blast overtook the wrong-doers, and they layprostrate in their homes before the morning,-
11/68 As if they had never dwelt and flourished there. Ah! Behold!for the Thamud rejected their Lord and Cherisher! Ah! Behold! removed (fromsight) were the Thamud!
11/69 There came Our messengers to Abraham with glad tidings. Theysaid, "Peace!" He answered, "Peace!" and hastened to entertain them with aroasted calf.
11/70 But when he saw their hands went not towards the (meal), hefelt some mistrust of them, and conceived a fear of them. They said: "Fearnot: We have been sent against the people of Lut."
11/71 And his wife was standing (there), and she laughed: But wegave her glad tidings of Isaac, and after him, of Jacob.
11/72 She said: "Alas for me! shall I bear a child, seeing I am anold woman, and my husband here is an old man? That would indeed be awonderful thing!"
11/73 They said: "Dost thou wonder at Allah's decree? The grace of Allahand His blessings on you, o ye people of the house! for He is indeed worthyof all praise, full of all glory!"
11/74 When fear had passed from (the mind of) Abraham and the gladtidings had reached him, he began to plead with us for Lut's people.
11/75 For Abraham was, without doubt, forbearing (of faults),compassionate, and given to look to Allah.
11/76 O Abraham! Seek not this. The decree of thy Lord hath goneforth: for them there cometh a penalty that cannot be turned back!
11/77 When Our messengers came to Lut, he was grieved on theiraccount and felt himself powerless (to protect) them. He said: "This is adistressful day."
11/78 And his people came rushing towards him, and they had beenlong in the habit of practising abominations. He said: "O my people! Hereare my daughters: they are purer for you (if ye marry)! Now fear Allah, andcover me not with shame about my guests! Is there not among you a singleright-minded man?"
11/79 They said: "Well dost thou know we have no need of thydaughters: indeed thou knowest quite well what we want!"
11/80 He said: "Would that I had power to suppress you or that Icould betake myself to some powerful support."
11/81 (The Messengers) said: "O Lut! We are Messengers from thyLord!  By no means shall they reach thee! now travel with thy family whileyet a part of the night remains, and let not any of you look back: but thywife (will remain behind): To her will happen what happens to the people.Morning is their time appointed: Is not the morning nigh?"
11/82 When Our Decree issued, We turned (the cities) upside down,and rained down on them brimstones hard as baked clay, spread, layer onlayer,-
11/83 Marked as from thy Lord: Nor are they ever far from those whodo wrong!
11/84 To the Madyan People (We sent) Shu'aib, one of their ownbrethren: he said: "O my people! worship Allah: Ye have no other god but Him.And give not short measure or weight: I see you in prosperity, but I fearfor you the penalty of a day that will compass (you) all round.
11/85 "And O my people! give just measure and weight, nor withholdfrom the people the things that are their due: commit not evil in the landwith intent to do mischief.
11/86 "That which is left you by Allah is best for you, if ye (but)believed! but I am not set over you to keep watch!"
11/87 They said: "O Shu'aib! Does thy (religion of) prayer commandthee that we leave off the worship which our fathers practised, or that weleave off doing what we like with our property? truly, thou art the onethat forbeareth with faults and is right-minded!"
11/88 He said: "O my people! see ye whether I have a Clear (Sign)from my Lord, and He hath given me sustenance (pure and) good  as fromHimself? I wish not, in opposition to you, to do that which I forbid you todo. I only desire (your) betterment to the best of my power; and my success(in my task) can only come from Allah. In Him I trust, and unto Him I look.
11/89 "And O my people! let not my dissent (from you) cause you tosin, lest ye suffer a fate similar to that of the people of Noah or of Hudor of Salih, nor are the people of Lut far off from you!
11/90 "But ask forgiveness of your Lord, and turn unto Him (inrepentance): For my Lord is indeed full of mercy and loving-kindness."
11/91 They said: "O Shu'aib! much of what thou sayest we do notunderstand! In fact among us we see that thou hast no strength! Were it notfor thy family, we should certainly have stoned thee! for thou hast amongus no great position!"
11/92 He said: "O my people! is then my family of more considerationwith you than Allah? For ye cast Him away behind your backs (with contempt).But verily my Lord encompasseth on all sides all that ye do!
11/93 "And O my people! Do whatever ye can: I will do (my part):Soon will ye know who it is on whom descends the penalty of ignominy; andwho is a liar! and watch ye! for I too am watching with you!"
11/94 When Our decree issued, We saved Shu'aib and those whobelieved with him, by (special) mercy from Ourselves: But the (mighty)blast did seize the wrong-doers, and they lay prostrate in their homes bythe morning,-
11/95 As if they had never dwelt and flourished there! Ah! Behold!How the Madyan were removed (from sight) as were removed the Thamud!
11/96 And we sent Moses, with Our Clear (Signs) and an authoritymanifest,
11/97 Unto Pharaoh and his chiefs: but they followed the command ofPharaoh and the command of Pharaoh was no right (guide).
11/98 He will go before his people on the Day of Judgment, and leadthem into the Fire (as cattle are led to water): But woeful indeed will bethe place to which they are led!
11/99 And they are followed by a curse in this (life) and on the Dayof Judgment: and woeful is the gift which shall be given (unto them)!
11/100 These are some of the stories of communities which We relateunto thee: of them some are standing, and some have been mown down (by thesickle of time).
11/101 It was not We that wronged them: They wronged their own souls:the deities, other than Allah, whom they invoked, profited them no whit whenthere issued the decree of thy Lord: Nor did they add aught (to their lot)but perdition!
11/102 Such is the chastisement of thy Lord when He chastisescommunities in the midst of their wrong: grievous, indeed, and severe isHis chastisement.
11/103 In that is a Sign for those who fear the penalty of theHereafter: that is a Day for which mankind will be gathered together: thatwill be a Day of Testimony.
11/104 Nor shall We delay it but for a term appointed.
11/105 The day it arrives, no soul shall speak except by His leave:of those (gathered) some will be wretched and some will be blessed.
11/106 Those who are wretched shall be in the Fire: There will be forthem therein (nothing but) the heaving of sighs and sobs:
11/107 They will dwell therein for all the time that the heavens andthe earth endure, except as thy Lord willeth: for thy Lord is the (sure)accomplisher of what He planneth.
11/108 And those who are blessed shall be in the Garden: They willdwell therein for all the time that the heavens and the earth endure,except as thy Lord willeth: a gift without break.
11/109 Be not then in doubt as to what these men worship. Theyworship nothing but what their fathers worshipped before (them): but verilyWe shall pay them back (in full) their portion without (the least)abatement.
11/110 We certainly gave the Book to Moses, but differences arosetherein: had it not been that a word had gone forth before from thy Lord,the matter would have been decided between them, but they are in suspiciousdoubt concerning it.
11/111 And, of a surety, to all will your Lord pay back (in full therecompense) of their deeds: for He knoweth well all that they do.
11/112 Therefore stand firm (in the straight Path) as thou artcommanded,- thou and those who with thee turn (unto Allah); and transgressnot (from the Path): for He seeth well all that ye do.
11/113 And incline not to those who do wrong, or the Fire will seizeyou; and ye have no protectors other than Allah, nor shall ye be helped.
11/114 And establish regular prayers at the two ends of the day andat the approaches of the night: For those things, that are good removethose that are evil: Be that the word of remembrance to those who remember(their Lord):
11/115 And be steadfast in patience; for verily Allah will not sufferthe reward of the righteous to perish.
11/116 Why were there not, among the generations before you, personspossessed of balanced good sense, prohibiting (men) from mischief in theearth - except a few among them whom We saved (from harm)? But thewrong-doers pursued the enjoyment of the good things of life which weregiven them, and persisted in sin.
11/117 Nor would thy Lord be the One to destroy communities for asingle wrong-doing, if its members were likely to mend.
11/118 If thy Lord had so willed, He could have made mankind onepeople: but they will not cease to dispute.
11/119 Except those on whom thy Lord hath bestowed His Mercy: and forthis did He create them: and the Word of thy Lord shall be fulfilled: "Iwill fill Hell with jinns and men all together."
11/120 All that we relate to thee of the stories of the messengers,-with it We make firm thy heart: in them there cometh to thee the Truth, aswell as an exhortation and a message of remembrance to those who believe.
11/121 Say to those who do not believe: "Do what ever ye can: Weshall do our part;
11/122 "And wait ye! We too shall wait."
11/123 To Allah do belong the unseen (secrets) of the heavens and theearth, and to Him goeth back every affair (for decision):  then worshipHim, and put thy trust in Him: and thy Lord is not unmindful of aught thatye do.
