14/1 A. L. R. A Book which We have revealed unto thee, in orderthat thou mightest lead mankind out of the depths of darkness into light -by the leave of their Lord - to the Way of (Him) the Exalted in power,worthy of all praise!-
14/2 Of Allah, to Whom do belong all things in the heavens and onearth! But alas for the Unbelievers for a terrible penalty (their Unfaithwill bring them)!-
14/3 Those who love the life of this world more than the Hereafter,who hinder (men) from the Path of Allah and seek therein something crooked:they are astray by a long distance.
14/4 We sent not a messenger except (to teach) in the language ofhis (own) people, in order to make (things) clear to them. Now Allah leavesstraying those whom He pleases and guides whom He pleases: and He isExalted in power, full of Wisdom.
14/5 We sent Moses with Our signs (and the command). "Bring out thypeople from the depths of darkness into light, and teach them to rememberthe Days of Allah." Verily in this there are Signs for such as are firmlypatient and constant,- grateful and appreciative.
14/6 Remember! Moses said to his people: "Call to mind the favourof Allah to you when He delivered you from the people of Pharaoh: they setyou hard tasks and punishments, slaughtered your sons, and let yourwomen-folk live: therein was a tremendous trial from your Lord."
14/7 And remember! your Lord caused to be declared (publicly): "Ifye are grateful, I will add more (favours) unto you; But if ye showingratitude, truly My punishment is terrible indeed."
14/8 And Moses said: "If ye show ingratitude, ye and all on earthtogether, yet is Allah free of all wants, worthy of all praise.
14/9 Has not the story reached you, (O people!), of those who(went) before you? - of the people of Noah, and 'Ad, and Thamud? - And ofthose who (came) after them? None knows them but Allah. To them came messengerswith Clear (Signs); but they put their hands up to their mouths, and said:"We do deny (the mission) on which ye have been sent, and we are really insuspicious (disquieting) doubt as to that to which ye invite us."
14/10 Their messengers said: "Is there a doubt about Allah, The Creatorof the heavens and the earth? It is He Who invites you, in order that Hemay forgive you your sins and give you respite for a term appointed!" Theysaid: "Ah! ye are no more than human, like ourselves! Ye wish to turn usaway from the (gods) our fathers used to worship: then bring us some clearauthority."
14/11 Their messengers said to them: "True, we are human likeyourselves, but Allah doth grant His grace to such of his servants as Hepleases. It is not for us to bring you an authority except as Allah permits.And on Allah let all men of faith put their trust.
14/12 "No reason have we why we should not put our trust on Allah.Indeed He Has guided us to the Ways we (follow). We shall certainly bearwith patience all the hurt you may cause us. For those who put their trustshould put their trust on Allah."
14/13 And the Unbelievers said to their messengers: "Be sure we shalldrive you out of our land, or ye shall return to our religion." But theirLord inspired (this Message) to them: "Verily We shall cause thewrong-doers to perish!
14/14 "And verily We shall cause you to abide in the land, andsucceed them. This for such as fear the Time when they shall stand beforeMy tribunal,- such as fear the punishment denounced."
14/15 But they sought victory and decision (there and then), andfrustration was the lot of every powerful obstinate transgressor.
14/16 In front of such a one is Hell, and he is given, for drink,boiling fetid water.
14/17 In gulps will he sip it, but never will he be near swallowingit down his throat: death will come to him from every quarter, yet will henot die: and in front of him will be a chastisement unrelenting.
14/18 The parable of those who reject their Lord is that their worksare as ashes, on which the wind blows furiously on a tempestuous day: Nopower have they over aught that they have earned: that is the straying far,far (from the goal).
14/19 Seest thou not that Allah created the heavens and the earth inTruth?  If He so will, He can remove you and put (in your place) a newcreation?
14/20 Nor is that for Allah any great matter.
14/21 They will all be marshalled before Allah together: then will theweak say to those who were arrogant, "For us, we but followed you; can yethen avail us to all against the wrath of Allah?" They will reply, "If we hadreceived the Guidance of Allah, we should have given it to you: to us itmakes no difference (now) whether we rage, or bear (these torments) withpatience: for ourselves there is no way of escape."
14/22 And Satan will say when the matter is decided: "It was Allah Whogave you a promise of Truth: I too promised, but I failed in my promise toyou. I had no authority over you except to call you but ye listened to me:then reproach not me, but reproach your own souls. I cannot listen to yourcries, nor can ye listen to mine. I reject your former act in associatingme with Allah. For wrong-doers there must be a grievous penalty."
14/23 But those who believe and work righteousness will be admittedto gardens beneath which rivers flow,- to dwell therein for aye with theleave of their Lord. Their greeting therein will be: "Peace!"
14/24 Seest thou not how Allah sets forth a parable? - A goodly wordlike a goodly tree, whose root is firmly fixed, and its branches (reach) tothe heavens,- of its Lord. So Allah sets forth parables for men, in orderthat they may receive admonition.
14/25 It brings forth its fruit at all times, by the leave of itsLord. So Allah sets forth parables for men, in order that they may receiveadmonition.
14/26 And the parable of an evil Word is that of an evil tree: It istorn up by the root from the surface of the earth: it has no stability.
14/27 Allah will establish in strength those who believe, with theword that stands firm, in this world and in the Hereafter; but Allah willleave, to stray, those who do wrong: Allah doeth what He willeth.
14/28 Hast thou not turned thy vision to those who have changed thefavour of Allah. Into blasphemy and caused their people to descend to theHouse of Perdition?-
14/29 Into Hell? They will burn therein,- an evil place to stay in!
14/30 And they set up (idols) as equal to Allah, to mislead (men) fromthe Path! Say: "Enjoy (your brief power)! But verily ye are makingstraightway for Hell!"
14/31 Speak to my servants who have believed, that they mayestablish regular prayers, and spend (in charity) out of the sustenance wehave given them, secretly and openly, before the coming of a Day in whichthere will be neither mutual bargaining nor befriending.
14/32 It is Allah Who hath created the heavens and the earth andsendeth down rain from the skies, and with it bringeth out fruits wherewithto feed you; it is He Who hath made the ships subject to you, that they maysail through the sea by His command; and the rivers (also) hath He madesubject to you.
14/33 And He hath made subject to you the sun and the moon, bothdiligently pursuing their courses; and the night and the day hath he (also)made subject to you.
14/34 And He giveth you of all that ye ask for. But if ye count thefavours of Allah, never will ye be able to number them. Verily, man is givenup to injustice and ingratitude.
14/35 Remember Abraham said: "O my Lord! make this city one of peaceand security: and preserve me and my sons from worshipping idols.
14/36 "O my Lord! they have indeed led astray many among mankind;He then who follows my (ways) is of me, and he that disobeys me,- but Thouart indeed Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
14/37 "O our Lord! I have made some of my offspring to dwell in avalley without cultivation, by Thy Sacred House; in order, O our Lord, thatthey may establish regular Prayer: so fill the hearts of some among menwith love towards them, and feed them with fruits: so that they may givethanks.
14/38 "O our Lord! truly Thou dost know what we conceal and what wereveal: for nothing whatever is hidden from Allah, whether on earth or inheaven.
14/39 "Praise be to Allah, Who hath granted unto me in old age Isma'iland Isaac: for truly my Lord is He, the Hearer of Prayer!
14/40 O my Lord! make me one who establishes regular Prayer, andalso (raise such) among my offspring O our Lord! and accept Thou myPrayer.
14/41 "O our Lord! cover (us) with Thy Forgiveness - me, my parents,and (all) Believers, on the Day that the Reckoning will be established!
14/42 Think not that Allah doth not heed the deeds of those who dowrong. He but giveth them respite against a Day when the eyes will fixedlystare in horror,-
14/43 They running forward with necks outstretched, their headsuplifted, their gaze returning not towards them, and their hearts a(gaping) void!
14/44 So warn mankind of the Day when the Wrath will reach them:then will the wrong-doers say: "Our Lord! respite us (if only)  for a shortterm: we will answer Thy call, and follow the messengers!" "What! were ye notwont to swear aforetime that ye should suffer no decline?
14/45 "And ye dwelt in the dwellings of men who wronged their ownsouls; ye were clearly shown how We dealt with them; and We put forth(many) parables in your behoof!"
14/46 Mighty indeed were the plots which they made, but their plotswere (well) within the sight of Allah, even though they were such as to shakethe hills!
14/47 Never think that Allah would fail his messengers in His promise:for Allah is Exalted in power, - the Lord of Retribution.
14/48 One day the earth will be changed to a different earth, and sowill be the heavens, and (men) will be marshalled forth, before Allah, theOne, the Irresistible;
14/49 And thou wilt see the sinners that day bound together infetters;-
14/50 Their garments of liquid pitch, and their faces covered withFire;
14/51 That Allah may requite each soul according to its deserts; andverily Allah is swift in calling to account.
14/52 Here is a Message for mankind: Let them take warningtherefrom, and let them know that He is (no other than) One Allah: let men ofunderstanding take heed.
