17/1 Glory to (Allah) Who did take His servant for a Journey by nightfrom the Sacred Mosque to the farthest Mosque, whose precincts We didbless,- in order that We might show him some of Our Signs: for He is theOne Who heareth and seeth (all things).
17/2 We gave Moses the Book, and made it a Guide to the Children ofIsrael, (commanding): "Take not other than Me as Disposer of (your)affairs."
17/3 O ye that are sprung from those whom We carried (in the Ark)with Noah! Verily he was a devotee most grateful.
17/4 And We gave (Clear) Warning to the Children of Israel in theBook, that twice would they do mischief on the earth and be elated withmighty arrogance (and twice would they be punished)!
17/5 When the first of the warnings came to pass, We sent againstyou Our servants given to terrible warfare: They entered the very inmostparts of your homes; and it was a warning (completely) fulfilled.
17/6 Then did We grant you the Return as against them: We gave youincrease in resources and sons, and made you the more numerous inman-power.
17/7 If ye did well, ye did well for yourselves; if ye did evil,(ye did it) against yourselves. So when the second of the warnings came topass, (We permitted your enemies) to disfigure your faces, and to enteryour Temple as they had entered it before, and to visit with destructionall that fell into their power.
17/8 It may be that your Lord may (yet) show Mercy unto you; but ifye revert (to your sins), We shall revert (to Our punishments): And we havemade Hell a prison for those who reject (all Faith).
17/9 Verily this Qur'an doth guide to that which is most right (orstable), and giveth the Glad Tidings to the Believers who work deeds ofrighteousness, that they shall have a magnificent reward;
17/10 And to those who believe not in the Hereafter, (it announceth)that We have prepared for them a Penalty Grievous (indeed).
17/11 The prayer that man should make for good, he maketh for evil;for man is given to hasty (deeds).
17/12 We have made the Night and the Day as two (of Our) Signs: theSign of the Night have We obscured, while the Sign of the Day We have madeto enlighten you; that ye may seek bounty from your Lord, and that ye mayknow the number and count of the years: all things have We explained indetail.
17/13 Every man's fate We have fastened on his own neck: On the Dayof Judgment We shall bring out for him a scroll, which he will see spreadopen.
17/14 (It will be said to him:) "Read thine (own) record: Sufficientis thy soul this day to make out an account against thee."
17/15 Who receiveth guidance, receiveth it for his own benefit: whogoeth astray doth so to his own loss: No bearer of burdens can bear theburden of another: nor would We visit with Our Wrath until We had sent anmessenger (to give warning).
17/16 When We decide to destroy a population, We (first) send adefinite order to those among them who are given the good things of thislife and yet transgress; so that the word is proved true against them: then(it is) We destroy them utterly.
17/17 How many generations have We destroyed after Noah? and enoughis thy Lord to note and see the sins of His servants.
17/18 If any do wish for the transitory things (of this life), Wereadily grant them - such things as We will, to such person as We will: inthe end have We provided Hell for them: they will burn therein, disgracedand rejected.
17/19 Those who do wish for the (things of) the Hereafter, andstrive therefor with all due striving, and have Faith,- they are the oneswhose striving is acceptable (to Allah).
17/20 Of the bounties of thy Lord We bestow freely on all- These aswell as those: The bounties of thy Lord are not closed (to anyone).
17/21 See how We have bestowed more on some than on others; butverily the Hereafter is more in rank and gradation and more in excellence.
17/22 Take not with Allah another object of worship; or thou (O man!)wilt sit in disgrace and destitution.
17/23 Thy Lord hath decreed that ye worship none but Him, and thatye be kind to parents. Whether one or both of them attain old age in thylife, say not to them a word of contempt, nor repel them, but address themin terms of honour.
17/24 And, out of kindness, lower to them the wing of humility, andsay: "My Lord! bestow on them thy Mercy even as they cherished me inchildhood."
17/25 Your Lord knoweth best what is in your hearts: If ye do deedsof righteousness, verily He is Most Forgiving to those who turn to Himagain and again (in true penitence).
17/26 And render to the kindred their due rights, as (also) to thosein want, and to the wayfarer: But squander not (your wealth) in the mannerof a spendthrift.
17/27 Verily spendthrifts are brothers of the Evil Ones; and theEvil One is to his Lord (himself) ungrateful.
17/28 And even if thou hast to turn away from them in pursuit of theMercy from thy Lord which thou dost expect, yet speak to them a word ofeasy kindness.
17/29 Make not thy hand tied (like a niggard's) to thy neck, norstretch it forth to its utmost reach, so that thou become blameworthy anddestitute.
17/30 Verily thy Lord doth provide sustenance in abundance for whomHe pleaseth, and He provideth in a just measure. For He doth know andregard all His servants.
17/31 Kill not your children for fear of want: We shall providesustenance for them as well as for you. Verily the killing of them is agreat sin.
17/32 Nor come nigh to adultery: for it is a shameful (deed) and anevil, opening the road (to other evils).
17/33 Nor take life - which Allah has made sacred - except for justcause. And if anyone is slain wrongfully, we have given his heir authority(to demand qisas or to forgive): but let him not exceed bounds in thematter of taking life; for he is helped (by the Law).
17/34 Come not nigh to the orphan's property except to improve it,until he attains the age of full strength; and fulfil (every) engagement,for (every) engagement will be enquired into (on the Day of Reckoning).
17/35 Give full measure when ye measure, and weigh with a balancethat is straight: that is the most fitting and the most advantageous in thefinal determination.
17/36 And pursue not that of which thou hast no knowledge; for everyact of hearing, or of seeing or of (feeling in) the heart will be enquiredinto (on the Day of Reckoning).
17/37 Nor walk on the earth with insolence: for thou canst not rendthe earth asunder, nor reach the mountains in height.
17/38 Of all such things the evil is hateful in the sight of thyLord.
17/39 These are among the (precepts of) wisdom, which thy Lord hasrevealed to thee. Take not, with Allah, another object of worship, lest thoushouldst be thrown into Hell, blameworthy and rejected.
17/40 Has then your Lord (O Pagans!) preferred for you sons, andtaken for Himself daughters among the angels? Truly ye utter a mostdreadful saying!
17/41 We have explained (things) in various (ways) in this Qur'an,in order that they may receive admonition, but it only increases theirflight (from the Truth)!
17/42 Say: If there had been (other) gods with Him, as they say,-behold, they would certainly have sought out a way to the Lord of theThrone!
17/43 Glory to Him! He is high above all that they say!- Exalted andGreat (beyond measure)!
17/44 The seven heavens and the earth, and all beings therein,declare His glory: there is not a thing but celebrates His praise; And yetye understand not how they declare His glory! Verily He is Oft-Forbear,Most Forgiving!
17/45 When thou dost recite the Qur'an, We put, between thee andthose who believe not in the Hereafter, a veil invisible:
17/46 And We put coverings over their hearts (and minds) lest theyshould understand the Qur'an, and deafness into their ears: when thou dostcommemorate thy Lord and Him alone in the Qur'an, they turn on their backs,fleeing (from the Truth).
17/47 We know best why it is they listen, when they listen to thee;and when they meet in private conference, behold, the wicked say, "Yefollow none other than a man bewitched!"
17/48 See what similes they strike for thee: but they have goneastray, and never can they find a way.
17/49 They say: "What! when we are reduced to bones and dust, shouldwe really be raised up (to be) a new creation?"
17/50 Say: "(Nay!) be ye stones or iron,
17/51 "Or created matter which, in your minds, is hardest (to beraised up),- (Yet shall ye be raised up)!" then will they say: "Who willcause us to return?" Say: "He who created you first!" Then will they wagtheir heads towards thee, and say, "When will that be?" Say, "May be itwill be quite soon!
17/52 "It will be on a Day when He will call you, and ye will answer(His call) with (words of) His praise, and ye will think that ye tarriedbut a little while!"
17/53 Say to My servants that they should (only) say those thingsthat are best: for Satan doth sow dissensions among them: For Satan is toman an avowed enemy.
17/54 It is your Lord that knoweth you best: If He please, Hegranteth you mercy, or if He please, punishment: We have not sent thee tobe a disposer of their affairs for them.
17/55 And it is your Lord that knoweth best all beings that are inthe heavens and on earth: We did bestow on some prophets more (and other)gifts than on others: and We gave to David (the gift of) the Psalms.
17/56 Say: "Call on those - besides Him - whom ye fancy: they haveneither the power to remove your troubles from you nor to change them."
17/57 Those whom they call upon do desire (for themselves) means ofaccess to their Lord, - even those who are nearest: they hope for His Mercyand fear His Wrath: for the Wrath of thy Lord is something to take heedof.
17/58 There is not a population but We shall destroy it before theDay of Judgment or punish it with a dreadful Penalty: that is written inthe (eternal) Record.
17/59 And We refrain from sending the signs, only because the men offormer generations treated them as false: We sent the she-camel to theThamud to open their eyes, but they treated her wrongfully: We only sendthe Signs by way of terror (and warning from evil).
17/60 Behold! We told thee that thy Lord doth encompass mankindround about: We granted the vision which We showed thee, but as a trial formen,- as also the Cursed Tree (mentioned) in the Qur'an:  We put terror(and warning) into them, but it only increases their inordinatetransgression!
17/61 Behold! We said to the angels: "Bow down unto Adam": Theybowed down except Iblis: He said, "Shall I bow down to one whom Thou didstcreate from clay?"
17/62 He said: "Seest Thou? this is the one whom Thou hast honouredabove me! If Thou wilt but respite me to the Day of Judgment, I will surelybring his descendants under my sway - all but a few!"
17/63 (Allah) said: "Go thy way; if any of them follow thee, verilyHell will be the recompense of you (all)- an ample recompense.
17/64 "Lead to destruction those whom thou canst among them, withthy (seductive) voice; make assaults on them with thy cavalry and thyinfantry; mutually share with them wealth and children; and make promisesto them." But Satan promises them nothing but deceit.
17/65 "As for My servants, no authority shalt thou have over them:"Enough is thy Lord for a Disposer of affairs.
17/66 Your Lord is He That maketh the Ship go smoothly for youthrough the sea, in order that ye may seek of his Bounty. For he is untoyou most Merciful.
17/67 When distress seizes you at sea, those that ye call upon -besides Himself - leave you in the lurch! but when He brings you back safeto land, ye turn away (from Him). Most ungrateful is man!
17/68 Do ye then feel secure that He will not cause you to beswallowed up beneath the earth when ye are on land, or that He will notsend against you a violent tornado (with showers of stones) so that yeshall find no one to carry out your affairs for you?
17/69 Or do ye feel secure that He will not send you back a secondtime to sea and send against you a heavy gale to drown you because of youringratitude, so that ye find no helper. Therein against Us?
17/70 We have honoured the sons of Adam; provided them withtransport on land and sea; given them for sustenance things good and pure;and conferred on them special favours, above a great part of our creation.
17/71 One day We shall call together all human beings with their(respective) Imams: those who are given their record in their right handwill read it (with pleasure), and they will not be dealt with unjustly inthe least.
17/72 But those who were blind in this world, will be blind in thehereafter, and most astray from the Path.
17/73 And their purpose was to tempt thee away from that which Wehad revealed unto thee, to substitute in our name something quitedifferent; (in that case), behold! they would certainly have made thee(their) friend!
17/74 And had We not given thee strength, thou wouldst nearly haveinclined to them a little.
17/75 In that case We should have made thee taste an equal portion(of punishment) in this life, and an equal portion in death: and moreoverthou wouldst have found none to help thee against Us!
17/76 Their purpose was to scare thee off the land, in order toexpel thee; but in that case they would not have stayed (therein) afterthee, except for a little while.
17/77 (This was Our) way with the messengers We sent before thee: thouwilt find no change in Our ways.
17/78 Establish regular prayers - at the sun's decline till thedarkness of the night, and the morning prayer and reading: for the prayerand reading in the morning carry their testimony.
17/79 And pray in the small watches of the morning: (it would be) anadditional prayer (or spiritual profit) for thee: soon will thy Lord raisethee to a Station of Praise and Glory!
17/80 Say: "O my Lord! Let my entry be by the Gate of Truth andHonour, and likewise my exit by the Gate of Truth and Honour; and grant mefrom Thy Presence an authority to aid (me)."
17/81 And say: "Truth has (now) arrived, and Falsehood perished: forFalsehood is (by its nature) bound to perish."
17/82 We send down (stage by stage) in the Qur'an that which is ahealing and a mercy to those who believe: to the unjust it causes nothingbut loss after loss.
17/83 Yet when We bestow Our favours on man, he turns away andbecomes remote on his side (instead of coming to Us), and when evil seizeshim he gives himself up to despair!
17/84 Say: "Everyone acts according to his own disposition: But yourLord knows best who it is that is best guided on the Way."
17/85 They ask thee concerning the Spirit (of inspiration). Say:"The Spirit (cometh) by command of my Lord: of knowledge it is only alittle that is communicated to you, (O men!)"
17/86 If it were Our Will, We could take away that which We havesent thee by inspiration:then wouldst thou find none to plead thy affair inthat matter as against Us,-
17/87 Except for Mercy from thy Lord: for his bounty is to thee(indeed) great.
17/88 Say: "If the whole of mankind and Jinns were to gathertogether to produce the like of this Qur'an, they could not produce thelike thereof, even if they backed up each other with help and support.
17/89 And We have explained to man, in this Qur'an, every kind ofsimilitude: yet the greater part of men refuse (to receive it) except withingratitude!
17/90 They say: "We shall not believe in thee, until thou cause aspring to gush forth for us from the earth,
17/91 "Or (until) thou have a garden of date trees and vines, andcause rivers to gush forth in their midst, carrying abundant water;
17/92 "Or thou cause the sky to fall in pieces, as thou sayest (willhappen), against us; or thou bring Allah and the angels before (us) face toface:
17/93 "Or thou have a house adorned with gold, or thou mount aladder right into the skies. No, we shall not even believe in thy mountinguntil thou send down to us a book that we could read." Say: "Glory to myLord! Am I aught but a man,- a messenger?"
17/94 What kept men back from belief when Guidance came to them, wasnothing but this: they said, "Has Allah sent a man (like us) to be (His)Messenger?"
17/95 Say, "If there were settled, on earth, angels walking about inpeace and quiet, We should certainly have sent them down from the heavensan angel for a messenger."
17/96 Say: "Enough is Allah for a witness between me and you: for Heis well acquainted with His servants, and He sees (all things).
17/97 It is he whom Allah guides, that is on true Guidance; but hewhom He leaves astray - for such wilt thou find no protector besides Him.On the Day of Judgment We shall gather, them together, prone on theirfaces, blind, dumb, and deaf: their abode will be Hell: every time it showsabatement, We shall increase from them the fierceness of the Fire.
17/98 That is their recompense, because they rejected Our signs, andsaid, "When we are reduced to bones and broken dust, should we really beraised up (to be) a new Creation?"
17/99 See they not that Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth,has power to create the like of them (anew)? Only He has decreed a termappointed, of which there is no doubt. But the unjust refuse (to receiveit) except with ingratitude.
17/100 Say: "If ye had control of the Treasures of the Mercy of myLord, behold, ye would keep them back, for fear of spending them: for manis (every) niggardly!"
17/101 To Moses We did give Nine Clear Signs: As the Children ofIsrael: when he came to them, Pharaoh said to him: "O Moses! I considerthee, indeed, to have been worked upon by sorcery!
17/102 Moses said, "Thou knowest well that these things have beensent down by none but the Lord of the heavens and the earth as eye-openingevidence: and I consider thee indeed, O Pharaoh, to be one doomed todestruction!"
17/103 So he resolved to remove them from the face of the earth: butWe did drown him and all who were with him.
17/104 And We said thereafter to the Children of Israel, "Dwellsecurely in the land (of promise)": but when the second of the warningscame to pass, We gathered you together in a mingled crowd.
17/105 We sent down the (Qur'an) in Truth, and in Truth has itdescended: and We sent thee but to give Glad Tidings and to warn(sinners).
17/106 (It is) a Qur'an which We have divided (into parts from timeto time), in order that thou mightest recite it to men at intervals: Wehave revealed it by stages.
17/107 Say: "Whether ye believe in it or not, it is true that thosewho were given knowledge beforehand, when it is recited to them, fall downon their faces in humble prostration,
17/108 "And they say: 'Glory to our Lord! Truly has the promise ofour Lord been fulfilled!'"
17/109 They fall down on their faces in tears, and it increases their(earnest) humility.
17/110 Say: "Call upon Allah, or call upon Rahman: by whatever name yecall upon Him, (it is well): for to Him belong the Most Beautiful Names.Neither speak thy Prayer aloud, nor speak it in a low tone, but seek amiddle course between."
17/111 Say: "Praise be to Allah, who begets no son, and has no partnerin (His) dominion: Nor (needs) He any to protect Him from humiliation: yea,magnify Him for His greatness and glory!"
