28/1 Ta. Sin. Mim.
28/2 These are Verses of the Book that makes (things) clear.
28/3 We rehearse to thee some of the story of Moses and Pharaoh inTruth, for people who believe.
28/4 Truly Pharaoh elated himself in the land and broke up itspeople into sections, depressing a small group among them: their sons heslew, but he kept alive their females: for he was indeed a maker ofmischief.
28/5 And We wished to be Gracious to those who were being depressedin the land, to make them leaders (in Faith) and make them heirs,
28/6 To establish a firm place for them in the land, and to showPharaoh, Haman, and their hosts, at their hands, the very things againstwhich they were taking precautions.
28/7 So We sent this inspiration to the mother of Moses: "Suckle(thy child), but when thou hast fears about him, cast him into the river,but fear not nor grieve: for We shall restore him to thee, and We shallmake him one of Our messengers."
28/8 Then the people of Pharaoh picked him up (from the river): (Itwas intended) that (Moses) should be to them an adversary and a cause ofsorrow: for Pharaoh and Haman and (all) their hosts were men of sin.
28/9 The wife of Pharaoh said: "(Here is) joy of the eye, for meand for thee: slay him not. It may be  that he will be use to us, or we mayadopt him as a son." And they perceived not (what they were doing)!
28/10 But there came to be a void in the heart of the mother ofMoses: She was going almost to disclose his (case), had We not strengthenedher heart (with faith), so that she might remain a (firm) believer.
28/11 And she said to the sister of (Moses), "Follow him" so she(the sister) watched him in the character of a stranger. And they knewnot.
28/12 And we ordained that he refused suck at first, until (Hissister came up and) said: "Shall I point out to you the people of a housethat will nourish and bring him up for you and be sincerely attached tohim?"...
28/13 Thus did We restore him to his mother, that her eye might becomforted, that she might not grieve, and that she might know that thepromise of Allah is true: but most of them do not understand.
28/14 When he reached full age, and was firmly established (inlife), We bestowed on him wisdom and knowledge: for thus do We reward thosewho do good.
28/15 And he entered the city at a time when its people were notwatching: and he found there two men fighting,- one of his own religion,and the other, of his foes. Now the man of his own religion appealed to himagainst his foe, and Moses struck him with his fist and made an end of him.He said: "This is a work of Evil (Satan): for he is an enemy thatmanifestly misleads!"
28/16 He prayed: "O my Lord! I have indeed wronged my soul! Do Thouthen forgive me!"  So (Allah) forgave him: for He is the Oft-Forgiving, MostMerciful.
28/17 He said: "O my Lord! For that Thou hast bestowed Thy Grace onme, never shall I be a help to those who sin!"
28/18 So he saw the morning in the city, looking about, in a stateof fear, when behold, the man who had, the day before, sought his helpcalled aloud for his help (again). Moses said to him: "Thou art truly, itis clear, a quarrelsome fellow!"
28/19 Then, when he decided to lay hold of the man who was an enemyto both of them, that man said: "O Moses! Is it thy intention to slay me asthou slewest a man yesterday? Thy intention is none other than to become apowerful violent man in the land, and not to be one who sets thingsright!"
28/20 And there came a man, running, from the furthest end of theCity. He said: "O Moses! the Chiefs are taking counsel together about thee,to slay thee: so get thee away, for I do give thee sincere advice."
28/21 He therefore got away therefrom, looking about, in a state offear. He prayed "O my Lord! save me from people given to wrong-doing."
28/22 Then, when he turned his face towards (the land of) Madyan, hesaid: "I do hope that my Lord will show me the smooth and straight Path."
28/23 And when he arrived at the watering (place) in Madyan, hefound there a group of men watering (their flocks), and besides them hefound two women who were keeping back (their flocks). He said:  "What isthe matter with you?" They said: "We cannot water (our flocks) until theshepherds take back (their flocks): And our father is a very old man."
28/24 So he watered (their flocks) for them; then he turned back tothe shade, and said:"O my Lord! truly am I in (desperate) need of any goodthat Thou dost send me!"
28/25 Afterwards one of the (damsels) came (back) to him, walkingbashfully. She said: "My father invites thee that he may reward thee forhaving watered (our flocks) for us." So when he came to him and narratedthe story, he said: "Fear thou not: (well) hast thou escaped from unjustpeople."
28/26 Said one of the (damsels): "O my (dear) father! engage him onwages: truly the best of men for thee to employ is the (man) who is strongand trusty"....
28/27 He said: "I intend to wed one of these my daughters to thee,on condition that thou serve me for eight years; but if thou complete tenyears, it will be (grace) from thee. But I intend not to place thee under adifficulty: thou wilt find me, indeed, if Allah wills, one of therighteous."
28/28 He said: "Be that (the agreement) between me and thee:whichever of the two terms I fulfil, let there be no ill-will to me. Be Allaha witness to what we say."
28/29 Now when Moses had fulfilled the term, and was travellingwith his family, he perceived a fire in the direction of Mount Tur. He saidto his family: "Tarry ye; I perceive a fire; I hope to bring you from theresome information, or a burning firebrand, that ye may warm yourselves."
28/30 But when he came to the (fire), a voice was heard from theright bank of the valley, from a tree in hallowed ground: "O Moses! VerilyI am Allah, the Lord of the Worlds....
28/31 "Now do thou throw thy rod!" but when he saw it moving (of itsown accord) as if it had been a snake, he turned back in retreat, andretraced not his steps: O Moses!" (It was said), "Draw near, and fear not:for thou art of those who are secure.
28/32 "Move thy hand into thy bosom, and it will come forth whitewithout stain (or harm), and draw thy hand close to thy side (to guard)against fear.  Those are the two credentials from thy Lord to Pharaoh andhis Chiefs: for truly they are a people rebellious and wicked."
28/33 He said: "O my Lord! I have slain a man among them, and I fearlest they slay me.
28/34 "And my brother Aaron - He is more eloquent in speech than I:so send him with me as a helper, to confirm (and strengthen) me: for I fearthat they may accuse me of falsehood."
28/35 He said: "We will certainly strengthen thy arm through thybrother, and invest you both with authority, so they shall not be able totouch you: with Our Sign shall ye triumph,- you two as well as those whofollow you."
28/36 When Moses came to them with Our clear signs, they said: "Thisis nothing but sorcery faked up: never did we head the like among ourfathers of old!"
28/37 Moses said: "My Lord knows best who it is that comes withguidance from Him and whose end will be best in the Hereafter: certain itis that the wrong-doers will not prosper."
28/38 Pharaoh said: "O Chiefs! no god do I know for you but myself:therefore, O Haman! light me a (kiln to bake bricks) out of clay, and buildme a lofty palace, that I may mount up to the god of Moses: but as far as Iam concerned, I think (Moses) is a liar!"
28/39 And he was arrogant and insolent in the land, beyond reason,-He and his hosts: they thought that they would not have to return to Us!
28/40 So We seized him and his hosts, and We flung them into thesea: Now behold what was the end of those who did wrong!
28/41 And we made them (but) leaders inviting to the Fire; and onthe Day of Judgment no help shall they find.
28/42 in this world We made a curse to follow them and on the Day ofJudgment they will be among the loathed (and despised).
28/43 We did reveal to Moses the Book after We had destroyed theearlier generations, (to give) Insight to men, and guidance and Mercy, thatthey might receive admonition.
28/44 Thou wast not on the Western side when We decreed theCommission to Moses, nor wast thou a witness (of those events).
28/45 But We raised up (new) generations, and long were the agesthat passed over them; but thou wast not a dweller among the people ofMadyan, rehearsing Our Signs to them; but it is We Who send messengers (withinspiration).
28/46 Nor wast thou at the side of (the Mountain of) Tur when wecalled (to Moses). Yet (art thou sent) as Mercy from thy Lord, to givewarning to a people to whom no warner had come before thee: in order thatthey may receive admonition.
28/47 If (We had) not (sent thee to the Quraish),- in case acalamity should seize them for (the deeds) that their hands have sentforth, they might say: "Our Lord! why didst Thou not sent us a messenger? Weshould then have followed Thy Signs and been amongst those who believe!"
28/48 But (now), when the Truth has come to them from Ourselves,they say, "Why are not (Signs) sent to him, like those which were sent toMoses?" Do they not then reject (the Signs) which were formerly sent toMoses? They say: "Two kinds of sorcery, each assisting the other!" And theysay: "For us, we reject all (such things)!"
28/49 Say: "Then bring ye a Book from Allah, which is a better guidethan either of them, that I may follow it! (do), if ye are truthful!"
28/50 But if they hearken not to thee, know that they only followtheir own lusts: and who is more astray than one who follow his own lusts,devoid of guidance from Allah? for Allah guides not people given towrong-doing.
28/51 Now have We caused the Word to reach them themselves, in orderthat they may receive admonition.
28/52 Those to whom We sent the Book before this,- they do believein this (revelation):
28/53 And when it is recited to them, they say: "We believe therein,for it is the Truth from our Lord: indeed we have been Muslims (bowing toAllah's Will) from before this.
28/54 Twice will they be given their reward, for that they havepersevered, that they avert Evil with Good, and that they spend (incharity) out of what We have given them.
28/55 And when they hear vain talk, they turn away therefrom andsay: "To us our deeds, and to you yours; peace be to you: we seek not theignorant."
28/56 It is true thou wilt not be able to guide every one, whom thoulovest; but Allah guides those whom He will and He knows best those whoreceive guidance.
28/57 They say: "If we were to follow the guidance with thee, weshould be snatched away from our land." Have We not established for them asecure sanctuary, to which are brought as tribute fruits of all kinds,- aprovision from Ourselves? but most of them understand not.
28/58 And how many populations We destroyed, which exulted in theirlife (of ease and plenty)! now those habitations of theirs, after them, aredeserted,- All but a (miserable) few! and We are their heirs!
28/59 Nor was thy Lord the one to destroy a population until He hadsent to its centre a messenger, rehearsing to them Our Signs; nor are Wegoing to destroy a population except when its members practise iniquity.
28/60 The (material) things which ye are given are but theconveniences of this life and the glitter thereof; but that which is withAllah is better and more enduring: will ye not then be wise?
28/61 Are (these two) alike?- one to whom We have made a goodlypromise, and who is going to reach its (fulfilment), and one to whom Wehave given the good things of this life, but who, on the Day of Judgment,is to be among those brought up (for punishment)?
28/62 That Day (Allah) will call to them, and say "Where are my'partners'?- whom ye imagined (to be such)?"
28/63 Those against whom the charge will be proved, will say: "OurLord! These are the ones whom we led astray: we led them astray, as we wereastray ourselves: we free ourselves (from them) in Thy presence: it was notus they worshipped."
28/64 It will be said (to them): "Call upon your 'partners' (forhelp)" :they will call upon them, but they will not listen to them; andthey will see the Penalty (before them); (how they will wish) 'if only theyhad been open to guidance!'
28/65 That Day (Allah) will call to them, and say: "What was theanswer ye gave to the messengers?"
28/66 Then the (whole) story that Day will seem obscure to them(like light to the blind) and they will not be able (even) to question eachother.
28/67 But any that (in this life) had repented, believed, and workedrighteousness, will have hopes to be among those who achieve salvation.
28/68 Thy Lord does create and choose as He pleases: no choice havethey (in the matter): Glory to Allah! and far is He above the partners theyascribe (to Him)!
28/69 And thy Lord knows all that their hearts conceal and all thatthey reveal.
28/70 And He is Allah: There is no god but He. To Him be praise, atthe first and at the last: for Him is the Command, and to Him shall ye(all) be brought back.
28/71 Say: See ye? If Allah were to make the night perpetual over youto the Day of Judgment, what god is there other than Allah, who can give youenlightenment? Will ye not then hearken?
28/72 Say: See ye? If Allah were to make the day perpetual over you tothe Day of Judgment, what god is there other than Allah, who can give you anight in which ye can rest? Will ye not then see?
28/73 It is out of His Mercy that He has made for you Night andDay,- that ye may rest therein, and that ye may seek of his Grace;- and inorder that ye may be grateful.
28/74 The Day that He will call on them, He will say: "Where are my'partners'? whom ye imagined (to be such)?"
28/75 And from each people shall We draw a witness, and We shallsay: "Produce  your Proof": then shall they know that the Truth is in Allah(alone), and the (lies) which they invented will leave them in lurch.
28/76 Qarun was doubtless, of the people of Moses; but he actedinsolently towards them: such were the treasures We had bestowed on himthat their very keys would have been a burden to a body of strong men,behold, his people said to him: "Exult not, for Allah loveth not those whoexult (in riches).
28/77 "But seek, with the (wealth) which Allah has bestowed on thee,the Home of the Hereafter, nor forget thy portion in this world: but dothou good, as Allah has been good to thee, and seek not (occasions for)mischief in the land: for Allah loves not those who do mischief."
28/78 He said: "This has been given to me because of a certainknowledge which I have." Did he not know that Allah had destroyed, beforehim, (whole) generations,- which were superior to him in strength andgreater in the amount (of riches) they had collected? but the wicked arenot called (immediately) to account for their sins.
28/79 So he went forth among his people in the (pride of his wordly)glitter. Said those whose aim is the Life of this World: "Oh! that we hadthe like of what Qarun has got! for he is truly a lord of mighty goodfortune!"
28/80 But those who had been granted (true) knowledge said: "Alasfor you! The reward of Allah (in the Hereafter) is best for those who believeand work righteousness: but this none shall attain, save those whosteadfastly persevere (in good)."
28/81 Then We caused the earth to swallow up him and his house; andhe had not (the least little) party to help him against Allah, nor could hedefend himself.
28/82 And those who had envied his position the day before began tosay on the morrow: "Ah! it is indeed Allah Who enlarges the provision orrestricts it, to any of His servants He pleases! had it not been that Allahwas gracious to us, He could have caused the earth to swallow us up! Ah!those who reject Allah will assuredly never prosper."
28/83 That Home of the Hereafter We shall give to those who intendnot high-handedness or mischief on earth: and the end is (best) for therighteous.
28/84 If any does good, the reward to him is better than his deed;but if any does evil, the doers of evil are only punished (to the extent)of their deeds.
28/85 Verily He Who ordained the Qur'an for thee, will bring theeback to the Place of Return. Say: "My Lord knows best who it is that bringstrue guidance, and who is in manifest error."
28/86 And thou hadst not expected that the Book would be sent tothee except as a Mercy from thy Lord: Therefore lend not thou support inany way to those who reject (Allah's Message).
28/87 And let nothing keep thee back from the Signs of Allah afterthey have been revealed to thee: and invite (men) to thy Lord, and be notof the company of those who join gods with Allah.
28/88 And call not, besides Allah, on another god. There is no god butHe. Everything (that exists) will perish except His own Face. To Himbelongs the Command, and to Him will ye (all) be brought back.
