18/1 Praise be to Allah, Who hath sent to His Servant the Book, andhath allowed therein no Crookedness:
18/2 (He hath made it) Straight (and Clear) in order that He maywarn (the godless) of a terrible Punishment from Him, and that He may giveGlad Tidings to the Believers who work righteous deeds, that they shallhave a goodly Reward,
18/3 Wherein they shall remain for ever:
18/4 Further, that He may warn those (also) who say, "Allah hathbegotten a son":
18/5 No knowledge have they of such a thing, nor had their fathers.It is a grievous thing that issues from their mouths as a saying what theysay is nothing but falsehood!
18/6 Thou wouldst only, perchance, fret thyself to death, followingafter them, in grief, if they believe not in this Message.
18/7 That which is on earth we have made but as a glittering showfor the earth, in order that We may test them - as to which of them arebest in conduct.
18/8 Verily what is on earth we shall make but as dust and dry soil(without growth or herbage).
18/9 Or dost thou reflect that the Companions of the Cave and ofthe Inscription were wonders among Our Sign?
18/10 Behold, the youths betook themselves to the Cave: they said,"Our Lord! bestow on us Mercy from Thyself, and dispose of our affair forus in the right way!"
18/11 Then We draw (a veil) over their ears, for a number of years,in the Cave, (so that they heard not):
18/12 Then We roused them, in order to test which of the two partieswas best at calculating the term of years they had tarried!
18/13 We relate to thee their story in truth: they were youths whobelieved in their Lord, and We advanced them in guidance:
18/14 We gave strength to their hearts: Behold, they stood up andsaid: "Our Lord is the Lord of the heavens and of the earth: never shall wecall upon any god other than Him: if we did, we should indeed have utteredan enormity!
18/15 "These our people have taken for worship gods other than Him:why do they not bring forward an authority clear (and convincing) for whatthey do? Who doth more wrong than such as invent a falsehood against Allah?
18/16 "When ye turn away from them and the things they worship otherthan Allah, betake yourselves to the Cave: Your Lord will shower His mercieson you and disposes of your affair towards comfort and ease."
18/17 Thou wouldst have seen the sun, when it rose, declining to theright from their Cave, and when it set, turning away from them to the left,while they lay in the open space in the midst of the Cave. Such are amongthe Signs of Allah: He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allahleaves to stray,- for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to theRight Way.
18/18 Thou wouldst have deemed them awake, whilst they were asleep,and We turned them on their right and on their left sides: their dogstretching forth his two fore-legs on the threshold: if thou hadst come upon to them, thou wouldst have certainly turned back from them in flight,and wouldst certainly have been filled with terror of them.
18/19 Such (being their state), we raised them up (from sleep), thatthey might question each other. Said one of them, "How long have ye stayed(here)?" They said, "We have stayed (perhaps) a day, or part of a day." (Atlength) they (all) said, "Allah (alone) knows best how long ye have stayedhere.... Now send ye then one of you with this money of yours to the town:let him find out which is the best food (to be had) and bring some to you,that (ye may) satisfy your hunger therewith: And let him behave with careand courtesy, and let him not inform any one about you.
18/20 "For if they should come upon you, they would stone you orforce you to return to their cult, and in that case ye would never attainprosperity."
18/21 Thus did We make their case known to the people, that theymight know that the promise of Allah is true, and that there can be no doubtabout the Hour of Judgment. Behold, they dispute among themselves as totheir affair. (Some) said, "Construct a building over them": Their Lordknows best about them: those who prevailed over their affair said, "Let ussurely build a place of worship over them."
18/22 (Some) say they were three, the dog being the fourth amongthem; (others) say they were five, the dog being the sixth,- doubtfullyguessing at the unknown; (yet others) say they were seven, the dog beingthe eighth. Say thou: "My Lord knoweth best their number; It is but fewthat know their (real case)." Enter not, therefore, into controversiesconcerning them, except on a matter that is clear, nor consult any of themabout (the affair of) the Sleepers.
18/23 Nor say of anything, "I shall be sure to do so and sotomorrow"-
18/24 Without adding, "So please Allah!" and call thy Lord to mindwhen thou forgettest, and say, "I hope that my Lord will guide me evercloser (even) than this to the right road."
18/25 So they stayed in their Cave three hundred years, and (some)add nine (more)
18/26 Say: "Allah knows best how long they stayed: with Him is (theknowledge of) the secrets of the heavens and the earth: how clearly Hesees, how finely He hears (everything)! They have no protector other thanHim; nor does He share His Command with any person whatsoever.
18/27 And recite (and teach) what has been revealed to thee of theBook of thy Lord: none can change His Words, and none wilt thou find as arefuge other than Him.
18/28 And keep thy soul content with those who call on their Lordmorning and evening, seeking His Face; and let not thine eyes pass beyondthem, seeking the pomp and glitter of this Life; no obey any whose heart Wehave permitted to neglect the remembrance of Us, one who follows his owndesires, whose case has gone beyond all bounds.
18/29 Say, "The truth is from your Lord": Let him who will believe,and let him who will, reject (it): for the wrong-doers We have prepared aFire whose (smoke and flames), like the walls and roof of a tent, will hemthem in: if they implore relief they will be granted water like meltedbrass, that will scald their faces, how dreadful the drink! Howuncomfortable a couch to recline on!
18/30 As to those who believe and work righteousness, verily Weshall not suffer to perish the reward of any who do a (single) righteousdeed.
18/31 For them will be Gardens of Eternity; beneath them rivers willflow; they will be adorned therein with bracelets of gold, and they willwear green garments of fine silk and heavy brocade: They will reclinetherein on raised thrones. How good the recompense! How beautiful a couchto recline on!
18/32 Set forth to them the parable of two men: for one of them Weprovided two gardens of grape-vines and surrounded them with date palms; inbetween the two We placed corn-fields.
18/33 Each of those gardens brought forth its produce, and failednot in the least therein: in the midst of them We caused a river to flow.
18/34 (Abundant) was the produce this man had : he said to hiscompanion, in the course of a mutual argument: "more wealth have I thanyou, and more honour and power in (my following of) men."
18/35 He went into his garden in a state (of mind) unjust to hissoul: He said, "I deem not that this will ever perish,
18/36 "Nor do I deem that the Hour (of Judgment) will (ever) come:Even if I am brought back to my Lord, I shall surely find (there) somethingbetter in exchange."
18/37 His companion said to him, in the course of the argument withhim: "Dost thou deny Him Who created thee out of dust, then out of asperm-drop, then fashioned thee into a man?
18/38 "But (I think) for my part that He is Allah, My Lord, and noneshall I associate with my Lord.
18/39 "Why didst thou not, as thou wentest into thy garden, say:'Allah's will (be done)! There is no power but with Allah!' If thou dost see meless than thee in wealth and sons,
18/40 "It may be that my Lord will give me something better than thygarden, and that He will send on thy garden thunderbolts (by way ofreckoning) from heaven, making it (but) slippery sand!-
18/41 "Or the water of the garden will run off underground so thatthou wilt never be able to find it."
18/42 So his fruits (and enjoyment) were encompassed (with ruin),and he remained twisting and turning his hands over what he had spent onhis property, which had (now) tumbled to pieces to its very foundations,and he could only say, "Woe is me! Would I had never ascribed partners tomy Lord and Cherisher!"
18/43 Nor had he numbers to help him against Allah, nor was he able todeliver himself.
18/44 There, the (only) protection comes from Allah, the True One. Heis the Best to reward, and the Best to give success.
18/45 Set forth to them the similitude of the life of this world: Itis like the rain which we send down from the skies: the earth's vegetationabsorbs it, but soon it becomes dry stubble, which the winds do scatter: itis (only) Allah who prevails over all things.
18/46 Wealth and sons are allurements of the life of this world: Butthe things that endure, good deeds, are best in the sight of thy Lord, asrewards, and best as (the foundation for) hopes.
18/47 One Day We shall remove the mountains, and thou wilt see theearth as a level stretch, and We shall gather them, all together, nor shallWe leave out any one of them.
18/48 And they will be marshalled before thy Lord in ranks, (withthe announcement), "Now have ye come to Us (bare) as We created you first:aye, ye thought We shall not fulfil the appointment made to you to meet(Us)!":
18/49 And the Book (of Deeds) will be placed (before you); and thouwilt see the sinful in great terror because of what is (recorded) therein;they will say, "Ah! woe to us! what a Book is this! It leaves out nothingsmall or great, but takes account thereof!" They will find all that theydid, placed before them: And not one will thy Lord treat with injustice.
18/50 Behold! We said to the angels, "Bow down to Adam": They boweddown except Iblis. He was one of the Jinns, and he broke the Command of hisLord. Will ye then take him and his progeny as protectors rather than Me?And they are enemies to you! Evil would be the exchange for thewrong-doers!
18/51 I called them not to witness the creation of the heavens andthe earth, nor (even) their own creation: nor is it for helpers such as Meto take as lead (men) astray!
18/52 One Day He will say, "Call on those whom ye thought to be Mypartners," and they will call on them, but they will not listen to them;and We shall make for them a place of common perdition.
18/53 And the Sinful shall see the fire and apprehend that they haveto fall therein: no means will they find to turn away therefrom.
18/54 We have explained in detail in this Qur'an, for the benefit ofmankind, every kind of similitude: but man is, in most things,contentious.
18/55 And what is there to keep back men from believing, now thatGuidance has come to them, nor from praying for forgiveness from theirLord, but that (they ask that) the ways of the ancients be repeated withthem, or the Wrath be brought to them face to face?
18/56 We only send the messengers to give Glad Tidings and to givewarnings: But the unbelievers dispute with vain argument, in ordertherewith to weaken the truth, and they treat My Signs as a jest, as alsothe fact that they are warned!
18/57 And who doth more wrong than one who is reminded of the Signsof his Lord, but turns away from them, forgetting the (deeds) which hishands have sent forth? Verily We have set veils over their hearts lest theyshould understand this, and over their ears, deafness, if thou callest themto guidance, even then will they never accept guidance.
18/58 But your Lord is Most forgiving, full of Mercy. If He were tocall them (at once) to account for what they have earned,then surely He would have hastened their punishment: butthey have their appointed time, beyond which they will find no refuge.
18/59 Such were the populations we destroyed when they committediniquities; but we fixed an appointed time for their destruction.
18/60 Behold, Moses said to his attendant, "I will not give up untilI reach the junction of the two seas or (until) I spend years and years intravel."
18/61 But when they reached the Junction, they forgot (about) theirFish, which took its course through the sea (straight) as in a tunnel.
18/62 When they had passed on (some distance), Moses said to hisattendant: "Bring us our early meal; truly we have suffered much fatigue atthis (stage of) our journey."
18/63 He replied: "Sawest thou (what happened) when we betookourselves to the rock? I did indeed forget (about) the Fish: none but Satanmade me forget to tell (you) about it: it took its course through the seain a marvellous way!"
18/64 Moses said: "That was what we were seeking after:" So theywent back on their footsteps, following (the path they had come).
18/65 So they found one of Our servants, on whom We had bestowedMercy from Ourselves and whom We had taught knowledge from Our ownPresence.
18/66 Moses said to him: "May I follow thee, on the footing thatthou teach me something of the (Higher) Truth which thou hast beentaught?"
18/67 (The other) said: "Verily thou wilt not be able to havepatience with me!"
18/68 "And how canst thou have patience about things about which thyunderstanding is not complete?"
18/69 Moses said: "Thou wilt find me, if Allah so will, (truly)patient: nor shall I disobey thee in aught."
18/70 The other said: "If then thou wouldst follow me, ask me noquestions about anything until I myself speak to thee concerning it."
18/71 So they both proceeded: until, when they were in the boat, hescuttled it. Said Moses: "Hast thou scuttled it in order to drown those init? Truly a strange thing hast thou done!"
18/72 He answered: "Did I not tell thee that thou canst have nopatience with me?"
18/73 Moses said: "Rebuke me not for forgetting, nor grieve me byraising difficulties in my case."
18/74 Then they proceeded: until, when they met a young man, he slewhim. Moses said: "Hast thou slain an innocent person who had slain none?Truly a foul (unheard of) thing hast thou done!"
18/75 He answered: "Did I not tell thee that thou canst have nopatience with me?"
18/76 (Moses) said: "If ever I ask thee about anything after this,keep me not in thy company: then wouldst thou have received (full) excusefrom my side."
18/77 Then they proceeded: until, when they came to the inhabitantsof a town, they asked them for food, but they refused them hospitality.They found there a wall on the point of falling down, but he set it upstraight. (Moses) said: "If thou hadst wished, surely thou couldst haveexacted some recompense for it!"
18/78 He answered: "This is the parting between me and thee: nowwill I tell thee the interpretation of (those things) over which thou wastunable to hold patience.
18/79 "As for the boat, it belonged to certain men in dire want:they plied on the water: I but wished to render it unserviceable, for therewas after them a certain king who seized on every boat by force.
18/80 "As for the youth, his parents were people of Faith, and wefeared that he would grieve them by obstinate rebellion and ingratitude (toAllah and man).
18/81 "So we desired that their Lord would give them in exchange (ason) better in purity (of conduct) and closer in affection.
18/82 "As for the wall, it belonged to two youths, orphans, in theTown; there was, beneath it, a buried treasure, to which they wereentitled: their father had been a righteous man: So thy Lord desired thatthey should attain their age of full strength and get out their treasure -a mercy (and favour) from thy Lord. I did it not of my own accord. Such isthe interpretation of (those things) over which thou wast unable to holdpatience."
18/83 They ask thee concerning Zul-qarnain. Say, "I will rehearse toyou something of his story."
18/84 Verily We established his power on earth, and We gave him theways and the means to all ends.
18/85 One (such) way he followed,
18/86 Until, when he reached the setting of the sun, he found it setin a spring of murky water: Near it he found a People: We said: "OZul-qarnain! (thou hast authority,) either to punish them, or to treat themwith kindness."
18/87 He said: "Whoever doth wrong, him shall we punish; then shallhe be sent back to his Lord; and He will punish him with a punishmentunheard-of (before).
18/88 "But whoever believes, and works righteousness,- he shall havea goodly reward, and easy will be his task as We order it by our Command."
18/89 Then followed he (another) way,
18/90 Until, when he came to the rising of the sun, he found itrising on a people for whom We had provided no covering protection againstthe sun.
18/91 (He left them) as they were: We completely understood what wasbefore him.
18/92 Then followed he (another) way,
18/93 Until, when he reached (a tract) between two mountains, hefound, beneath them, a people who scarcely understood a word.
18/94 They said: "O Zul-qarnain! the Gog and Magog (People) do greatmischief on earth: shall we then render thee tribute in order that thoumightest erect a barrier between us and them?
18/95 He said: "(The power) in which my Lord has established me isbetter (than tribute): Help me therefore with strength (and labour): I willerect a strong barrier between you and them:
18/96 "Bring me blocks of iron." At length, when he had filled upthe space between the two steep mountain-sides, He said, "Blow (with yourbellows)" Then, when he had made it (red) as fire, he said: "Bring me, thatI may pour over it, molten lead."
18/97 Thus were they made powerless to scale it or to dig throughit.
18/98 He said: "This is a mercy from my Lord: But when the promiseof my Lord comes to pass, He will make it into dust; and the promise of myLord is true."
18/99 On that day We shall leave them to surge like waves on oneanother: the trumpet will be blown, and We shall collect them alltogether.
18/100 And We shall present Hell that day for Unbelievers to see, allspread out,-
18/101 (Unbelievers) whose eyes had been under a veil fromremembrance of Me, and who had been unable even to hear.
18/102 Do the Unbelievers think that they can take My servants asprotectors besides Me? Verily We have prepared Hell for the Unbelievers for(their) entertainment.
18/103 Say: "Shall we tell you of those who lose most in respect oftheir deeds?-
18/104 "Those whose efforts have been wasted in this life, while theythought that they were acquiring good by their works?"
18/105 They are those who deny the Signs of their Lord and the factof their having to meet Him (in the Hereafter): vain will be their works,nor shall We, on the Day of Judgment, give them any weight.
18/106 That is their reward, Hell, because they rejected Faith, andtook My Signs and My Messengers by way of jest.
18/107 As to those who believe and work righteous deeds, they have,for their entertainment, the Gardens of Paradise,
18/108 Wherein they shall dwell (for aye): no change will they wishfor from them.
18/109 Say: "If the ocean were ink (wherewith to write out) the wordsof my Lord, sooner would the ocean be exhausted than would the words of myLord, even if we added another ocean like it, for its aid."
18/110 Say: "I am but a man like yourselves, (but) the inspirationhas come to me, that your Allah is one Allah: whoever expects to meet his Lord,let him work righteousness, and, in the worship of his Lord, admit no oneas partner.
