31/1 A. L. M.
31/2 These are Verses of the Wise Book,-
31/3 A Guide and a Mercy to the Doers of Good,-
31/4 Those who establish regular Prayer, and give regular Charity,and have (in their hearts) the assurance of the Hereafter.
31/5 These are on (true) guidance from their Lord: and these arethe ones who will prosper.
31/6 But there are, among men, those who purchase idle tales,without knowledge (or meaning), to mislead (men) from the Path of Allah andthrow ridicule (on the Path): for such there will be a HumiliatingPenalty.
31/7 When Our Signs are rehearsed to such a one, he turns away inarrogance, as if he heard them not, as if there were deafness in both hisears: announce to him a grievous Penalty.
31/8 For those who believe and work righteous deeds, there will beGardens of Bliss,-
31/9 To dwell therein. The promise of Allah is true: and He isExalted in Power, Wise.
31/10 He created the heavens without any pillars that ye can see; Heset on the earth mountains standing firm, lest it should shake with you;and He scattered through it beasts of all kinds. We send down rain from thesky, and produce on the earth every kind of noble creature, in pairs.
31/11 Such is the Creation of Allah: now show Me what is there thatothers besides Him have created: nay, but the Transgressors are in manifesterror.
31/12 we bestowed (in the past) Wisdom on Luqman: "Show (thy)gratitude to Allah." Any who is (so) grateful does so to the profit of hisown soul: but if any is ungrateful, verily Allah is free of all wants, Worthyof all praise.
31/13 Behold, Luqman said to his son by way of instruction: "O myson! join not in worship (others) with Allah: for false worship is indeed thehighest wrong-doing."
31/14 And We have enjoined on man (to be good) to his parents: intravail upon travail did his mother bear him, and in years twain was hisweaning: (hear the command), "Show gratitude to Me and to thy parents: toMe is (thy final) Goal.
31/15 "But if they strive to make thee join in worship with Methings of which thou hast no knowledge, obey them not; yet bear themcompany in this life with justice (and consideration), and follow the wayof those who turn to me (in love): in the end the return of you all is toMe, and I will tell you the truth (and meaning) of all that ye did."
31/16 "O my son!" (said Luqman), "If there be (but) the weight of amustard-seed and it were (hidden) in a rock, or (anywhere) in the heavensor on earth, Allah will bring it forth: for Allah understands the finestmysteries, (and) is well-acquainted (with them).
31/17 "O my son! establish regular prayer, enjoin what is just, andforbid what is wrong: and bear with patient constancy whatever betide thee;for this is firmness (of purpose) in (the conduct of) affairs.
31/18 "And swell not thy cheek (for pride) at men, nor walk ininsolence through the earth; for Allah loveth not any arrogant boaster.
31/19 "And be moderate in thy pace, and lower thy voice; for theharshest of sounds without doubt is the braying of the ass."
31/20 Do ye not see that Allah has subjected to your (use) all thingsin the heavens and on earth, and has made his bounties flow to you inexceeding measure, (both) seen and unseen?  Yet there are among men thosewho dispute about Allah, without knowledge and without guidance, and withouta Book to enlighten them!
31/21 When they are told to follow the (Revelation) that Allah hassent down, they say: "Nay, we shall follow the ways that we found ourfathers (following). "What! even if it is Satan beckoning them to thePenalty of the (Blazing) Fire?
31/22 Whoever submits his whole self to Allah, and is a doer of good,has grasped indeed the most trustworthy hand-hold: and with Allah rests theEnd and Decision of (all) affairs.
31/23 But if any reject Faith, let not his rejection grieve thee: toUs is their return, and We shall tell them the truth of their deeds: forAllah knows well all that is in (men's) hearts.
31/24 We grant them their pleasure for a little while: in the endshall We drive them to a chastisement unrelenting.
31/25 If thou ask them, who it is that created the heavens and theearth. They will certainly say, "Allah". Say: "Praise be to Allah!" But most ofthem understand not.
31/26 To Allah belong all things in heaven and earth: verily Allah is He(that is) free of all wants, worthy of all praise.
31/27 And if all the trees on earth were pens and the ocean (wereink), with seven oceans behind it to add to its (supply), yet would not thewords of Allah be exhausted (in the writing): for Allah is Exalted in Power,full of Wisdom.
31/28 And your creation or your resurrection is in no wise but as anindividual soul: for Allah is He Who hears and sees (all things).
31/29 Seest thou not that Allah merges Night into Day and he mergesDay into Night; that He has subjected the sun, and the moon (to his Law),each running its course for a term appointed; and that Allah iswell-acquainted with all that ye do?
31/30 That is because Allah is the (only) Reality, and becausewhatever else they invoke besides Him is Falsehood; and because Allah,- He isthe Most High, Most Great.
31/31 Seest thou not that the ships sail through the ocean by theGrace of Allah?- that He may show you of His Signs? Verily in this are Signsfor all who constantly persevere and give thanks.
31/32 When a wave covers them like the canopy (of clouds), they callto Allah, offering Him sincere devotion. But when He has delivered themsafely to land, there are among them those that halt between (right andwrong). But none reject Our Signs except only a perfidious ungrateful(wretch)!
31/33 O mankind! do your duty to your Lord, and fear (the coming of)a Day when no father can avail aught for his son, nor a son avail aught forhis father. Verily, the promise of Allah is true: let not then this presentlife deceive you, nor let the chief Deceiver deceive you about Allah.
31/34 Verily the knowledge of the Hour is with Allah (alone). It is HeWho sends down rain, and He Who knows what is in the wombs. Nor does anyone know what it is that he will earn on the morrow: Nor does any one knowin what land he is to die. Verily with Allah is full knowledge and He isacquainted (with all things).
