5/1 O ye who believe! fulfil (all) obligations. Lawful unto you(for food) are all four-footed animals, with the exceptions named: Butanimals of the chase are forbidden while ye are in the sacred precincts orin pilgrim garb: for Allah doth command according to His will and plan.
5/2 O ye who believe! Violate not the sanctity of the symbols ofAllah, nor of the sacred month, nor of the animals brought for sacrifice, northe garlands that mark out such animals, nor the people resorting to thesacred house, seeking of the bounty and good pleasure of their Lord. Butwhen ye are clear of the sacred precincts and of pilgrim garb, ye may huntand let not the hatred of some people in (once) shutting you out of theSacred Mosque lead you to transgression (and hostility on your part). Helpye one another in righteousness and piety, but help ye not one another insin and rancour: fear Allah: for Allah is strict in punishment.
5/3 Forbidden to you (for food) are: dead meat, blood, the fleshof swine, and that on which hath been invoked the name of other than Allah;that which hath been killed by strangling, or by a violent blow, or by aheadlong fall, or by being gored to death; that which hath been (partly)eaten by a wild animal; unless ye are able to slaughter it (in due form);that which is sacrificed on stone (altars); (forbidden) also is thedivision (of meat) by raffling with arrows: that is impiety. This day havethose who reject faith given up all hope of your religion: yet fear themnot but fear Me. This day have I perfected your religion for you, completedMy favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion. But ifany is forced by hunger, with no inclination to transgression, Allah isindeed Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
5/4 They ask thee what is lawful to them (as food). Say: lawfulunto you are (all) things good and pure: and what ye have taught yourtrained hunting animals (to catch) in the manner  directed to you by Allah:eat what they catch for you, but pronounce the name of Allah over it: andfear Allah; for Allah is swift in taking account.
5/5 This day are (all) things good and pure made lawful unto you.The food of the People of the Book is lawful unto you and yours is lawfulunto them. (Lawful unto you in marriage) are (not only) chaste women whoare believers, but chaste women among the People of the Book, revealedbefore your time,- when ye give them their due dowers, and desire chastity,not lewdness, nor secret intrigues if any one rejects faith, fruitless ishis work, and in the Hereafter he will be in the ranks of those who havelost (all spiritual good).
5/6 O ye who believe! when ye prepare for prayer, wash your faces,and your hands (and arms) to the elbows; Rub your heads (with water); and(wash) your feet to the ankles. If ye are in a state of ceremonialimpurity, bathe your whole body. But if ye are ill, or on a journey, or oneof you cometh from offices of nature, or ye have been in contact withwomen, and ye find no water, then take for yourselves clean sand or earth,and rub therewith your faces and hands, Allah doth not wish to place you in adifficulty, but to make you clean, and to complete his favour to you, thatye may be grateful.
5/7 And call in remembrance the favour of Allah unto you, and Hiscovenant, which He ratified  with you, when ye said: "We hear and we obey":And fear Allah, for Allah knoweth well the secrets of your hearts.
5/8 O ye who believe! stand out firmly for Allah, as witnesses tofair dealing, and let not the hatred of others to you make you swerve towrong and depart from justice. Be just: that is next to piety: and fearAllah. For Allah is well-acquainted with all that ye do.
5/9 To those who believe and do deeds of righteousness hath Allahpromised forgiveness and a great reward.
5/10 Those who reject faith and deny our signs will be companionsof Hell-fire.
5/11 O ye who believe! Call in remembrance the favour of Allah untoyou when certain men formed the design to stretch out their hands againstyou, but (Allah) held back their hands from you: so fear Allah. And on Allah letbelievers put (all) their trust.
5/12 Allah did aforetime take a covenant from the Children of Israel,and we appointed twelve captains among them. And Allah said: "I am with you:if ye (but) establish regular prayers, practise regular charity, believe inmy messengers, honour and assist them, and loan to Allah a beautiful loan,verily I will wipe out from you your evils, and admit you to gardens withrivers flowing beneath;  but if any of you, after this, resisteth faith, hehath truly wandered from the path or rectitude."
5/13 But because of their breach of their covenant, We cursed them,and made their hearts grow hard; they change the words from their (right)places and forget a good part of the message that was sent them, nor wiltthou cease to find them- barring a few - ever bent on (new) deceits: butforgive them, and overlook (their misdeeds): for Allah loveth those who arekind.
5/14 From those, too, who call themselves Christians, We did take acovenant, but they forgot a good part of the message that was sent them: sowe estranged them, with enmity and hatred between the one and the other, tothe day of judgment. And soon will Allah show them what it is they havedone.
5/15 O people of the Book! There hath come to you our Messenger,revealing to you much that ye used to hide in the Book, and passing overmuch (that is now unnecessary): There hath come to you from Allah a (new)light and a perspicuous Book, -
5/16 Wherewith Allah guideth all who seek His good pleasure to waysof peace and safety, and leadeth them out of darkness, by His will, untothe light,- guideth them to a path that is straight.
5/17 In blasphemy indeed are those that say that Allah is Christ theson of Mary. Say: "Who then hath the least power against Allah, if His willwere to destroy Christ the son of Mary, his mother, and all every - onethat is on the earth? For to Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens andthe earth, and all that is between. He createth what He pleaseth. For Allahhath power over all things."
5/18 (Both) the Jews and the Christians say: "We are sons of Allah,and his beloved." Say: "Why then doth He punish you for your sins? Nay, yeare but men,- of the men he hath created: He forgiveth whom He pleaseth,and He punisheth whom He pleaseth: and to Allah belongeth the dominion of theheavens and the earth, and all that is between: and unto Him is the finalgoal (of all)"
5/19 O People of the Book! Now hath come unto you, making (things)clear unto you, Our Messenger, after the break in (the series of) ourmessengers, lest ye should say: "There came unto us no bringer of gladtidings and no warner (from evil)": But now hath come unto you a bringer ofglad tidings and a warner (from evil). And Allah hath power over all things.
5/20 Remember Moses said to his people: "O my people! Call inremembrance the favour of Allah unto you, when He produced prophets amongyou, made you kings, and gave you what He had not given to any other amongthe peoples.
5/21 "O my people! Enter the holy land which Allah hath assigned untoyou, and turn not back ignominiously, for then will ye be overthrown, toyour own ruin."
5/22 They said: "O Moses! In this land are a people of exceedingstrength: Never shall we enter it until they leave it: if (once) theyleave, then shall we enter."
5/23 (But) among (their) Allah-fearing men were two on whom Allah hadbestowed His grace: They said: "Assault them at the (proper) Gate:  whenonce ye are in, victory will be yours; But on Allah put your trust if ye havefaith."
5/24 They said: "O Moses! while they remain there, never shall webe able to enter, to the end of time. Go thou, and thy Lord, and fight yetwo, while we sit here (and watch)."
5/25 He said: "O my Lord! I have power only over myself and mybrother: so separate us from this rebellious people!"
5/26 Allah said: "Therefore will the land be out of their reach forforty years: In distraction will they wander through the land: But sorrowthou not over these rebellious people.
5/27 Recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam.Behold! they each presented a sacrifice (to Allah): It was accepted from one,but not from the other. Said the latter: "Be sure I will slay thee.""Surely," said the former, "Allah doth accept of the sacrifice of those whoare righteous.
5/28 "If thou dost stretch thy hand against me, to slay me, it isnot for me to stretch my hand against thee to slay thee: for I do fear Allah,the cherisher of the worlds.
5/29 "For me, I intend to let thee draw on thyself my sin as wellas thine, for thou wilt be among the companions of the fire, and that isthe reward of those who do wrong."
5/30 The (selfish) soul of the other led him to the murder of hisbrother: he murdered him, and became (himself) one of the lost ones.
5/31 Then Allah sent a raven, who scratched the ground, to show himhow to hide the shame of his brother. "Woe is me!" said he;  "Was I noteven able to be as this raven, and to hide the shame of my brother?" thenhe became full of regrets-
5/32 On that account: We ordained for the Children of Israel thatif any one slew a person - unless it be for murder or for spreadingmischief in the land - it would be as if he slew the whole people: and ifany one saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life of the wholepeople. Then although there came to them Our messengers with clear signs,yet, even after that, many of them continued to commit excesses in theland.
5/33 The punishment of those who wage war against Allah and HisMessenger, and strive with might and main for mischief through the land is:execution, or crucifixion, or the cutting off of hands and feet fromopposite sides, or exile from the land: that is their disgrace in thisworld, and a heavy punishment is theirs in the Hereafter;
5/34 Except for those who repent before they fall into your power:in that case, know that Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
5/35 O ye who believe! Do your duty to Allah, seek the means ofapproach unto Him, and strive with might and main in his cause: that ye mayprosper.
5/36 As to those who reject Faith,- if they had everything onearth, and twice repeated, to give as ransom for the penalty of the Day ofJudgment, it would never be accepted of them, theirs would be a grievouspenalty.
5/37 Their wish will be to get out of the Fire, but never will theyget out therefrom: their penalty will be one that endures.
5/38 As to the thief, Male or female, cut off his or her hands: apunishment by way of example, from Allah, for their crime: and Allah is Exaltedin power.
5/39 But if the thief repents after his crime, and amends hisconduct, Allah turneth to him in forgiveness; for Allah is Oft-forgiving, MostMerciful.
5/40 Knowest thou not that to Allah (alone) belongeth the dominion ofthe heavens and the earth? He punisheth whom He pleaseth, and He forgivethwhom He pleaseth: and Allah hath  power over all things.
5/41 O Messenger! let not those grieve thee, who race each other intounbelief: (whether it be) among those who say "We believe" with their lipsbut whose hearts have no faith; or it be among the Jews,- men who willlisten to any lie,- will listen even to others who have never so much ascome to thee. They change the words from their (right) times and places:they say, "If ye are given this, take it, but if not, beware!" If any one'strial is intended by Allah, thou hast no authority in the least for himagainst Allah. For such - it is not Allah's will to purify their hearts. Forthem there is disgrace in this world, and in the Hereafter a heavypunishment.
5/42 (They are fond of) listening to falsehood, of devouringanything forbidden. If they do come to thee, either judge between them, ordecline to interfere. If thou decline, they cannot hurt thee in the least.If thou judge, judge in equity between them. For Allah loveth those who judgein equity.
5/43 But why do they come to thee for decision, when they have(their own) law before them?- therein is the (plain) command of Allah; yeteven after that, they would turn away. For they are not (really) People ofFaith.
5/44 It was We who revealed the law (to Moses): therein wasguidance and light. By its standard have been judged the Jews, by theprophets who bowed (as in Islam) to Allah's will, by the rabbis and thedoctors of law: for to them was entrusted the protection of Allah's book, andthey were witnesses thereto: therefore fear not men, but fear me, and sellnot my signs for a miserable price. If any do fail to judge by (the lightof) what Allah hath revealed, they are (no better than) Unbelievers.
5/45 We ordained therein for them: "Life for life, eye for eye,nose or nose, ear for ear, tooth for tooth, and wounds equal for equal."But if any one remits the retaliation by way of charity, it is an act ofatonement for himself. And if any fail to judge by (the light of) what Allahhath revealed, they are (No better than) wrong-doers.
5/46 And in their footsteps We sent Jesus the son of Mary,confirming the Law that had come before him: We sent him the Gospel:therein was guidance and light, and confirmation of the Law that had comebefore him: a guidance and an admonition to those who fear Allah.
5/47 Let the people of the Gospel judge by what Allah hath revealedtherein. If any do fail to judge by (the light of) what Allah hath revealed,they are (no better than) those who rebel.
5/48 To thee We sent the Scripture in truth, confirming thescripture that came before it, and guarding it in safety: so judge betweenthem by what Allah hath revealed, and follow not their vain desires,diverging from the Truth that hath come to thee. To each among you have weprescribed a law and an open way. If Allah had so willed, He would have madeyou a single people, but (His plan is) to test you in what He hath givenyou: so strive as in a race in all virtues. The goal of you all is to Allah;it is He that will show you the truth of the matters in which ye dispute;
5/49 And this (He commands): Judge thou between them by what Allahhath revealed, and follow not their vain desires, but beware of them lestthey beguile thee from any of that (teaching) which Allah hath sent down tothee. And if they turn away, be assured that for some of their crime it isAllah's purpose to punish them. And truly most men are rebellious.
5/50 Do they then seek after a judgment of (the days of) ignorance?But who, for a people whose faith is assured, can give better judgment thanAllah?
5/51 O ye who believe! take not the Jews and the Christians foryour friends and protectors: They are but friends and protectors to eachother. And he amongst you that turns to them (for friendship) is of them.Verily Allah guideth not a people unjust.
5/52 Those in whose hearts is a disease - thou seest how eagerlythey run about amongst them, saying: "We do fear lest a change of fortunebring us disaster." Ah! perhaps Allah will give (thee) victory, or a decisionaccording to His will. Then will they repent of the thoughts which theysecretly harboured in their hearts.
5/53 And those who believe will say: "Are these the men who sworetheir strongest oaths by Allah, that they were with you?" All that they dowill be in vain, and they will fall into (nothing but) ruin.
5/54 O ye who believe! if any from among you turn back from hisFaith, soon will Allah produce a people whom He will love as they will loveHim,- lowly with the believers, mighty against the rejecters, fighting inthe way of Allah, and never afraid of the reproaches of such as find fault.That is the grace of Allah, which He will bestow on whom He pleaseth. And Allahencompasseth all, and He knoweth all things.
5/55 Your (real) friends are (no less than) Allah, His Messenger, andthe (fellowship of) believers,- those who establish regular prayers andregular charity, and they bow down humbly (in worship).
5/56 As to those who turn (for friendship) to Allah, His Messenger, andthe (fellowship of) believers,- it is the fellowship of Allah that mustcertainly triumph.
5/57 O ye who believe! take not for friends and protectors thosewho take your religion for a mockery or sport,- whether among those whoreceived the Scripture before you, or among those who reject Faith; butfear ye Allah, if ye have faith (indeed).
5/58 When ye proclaim your call to prayer they take it (but) asmockery and sport; that is because they are a people withoutunderstanding.
5/59 Say: "O people of the Book! Do ye disapprove of us for noother reason than that we believe in Allah, and the revelation that hath cometo us and that which came before (us), and (perhaps) that most of you arerebellious and disobedient?"
5/60 Say: "Shall I point out to you something much worse than this,(as judged) by the treatment it received from Allah? those who incurred thecurse of Allah and His wrath, those of whom some He transformed into apes andswine, those who worshipped evil;- these are (many times) worse in rank,and far more astray from the even path!"
5/61 When they come to thee, they say: "We believe": but in factthey enter with a mind against Faith, and they go out with the same but Allahknoweth fully all that they hide.
5/62 Many of them dost thou see, racing each other in sin andrancour, and their eating of things forbidden. Evil indeed are the thingsthat they do.
5/63 Why do not the rabbis and the doctors of Law forbid them fromtheir (habit of) uttering sinful words and eating things forbidden? Evilindeed  are their works.
5/64 The Jews say: "Allah's hand is tied up." Be their hands tied upand be they accursed for the (blasphemy) they utter. Nay, both His handsare widely outstretched: He giveth and spendeth (of His bounty) as Hepleaseth. But the revelation that cometh to thee from Allah increaseth inmost of them their obstinate rebellion and blasphemy. Amongst them we haveplaced enmity and hatred till the Day of Judgment. Every time they kindlethe fire of war, Allah doth extinguish it; but they (ever) strive to domischief on earth. And Allah loveth not those who do mischief.
5/65 If only the People of the Book had believed and beenrighteous, We should indeed have blotted out their iniquities and admittedthem to gardens of bliss.
5/66 If only they had stood fast by the Law, the Gospel, and allthe revelation that was sent to them from their Lord, they would haveenjoyed happiness from every side. There is from among them a party on theright course: but many of them follow a course that is evil.
5/67 O Messenger! proclaim the (message) which hath been sent to theefrom thy Lord. If thou didst not, thou wouldst not have fulfilled andproclaimed His mission. And Allah will defend thee from men (who meanmischief). For Allah guideth not those who reject Faith.
5/68 Say: "O People of the Book! ye have no ground to stand uponunless ye stand fast by the Law, the Gospel, and all the revelation thathas come to you from your Lord." It is the revelation that cometh to theefrom thy Lord, that increaseth in most of them their obstinate rebellionand blasphemy. But sorrow thou not over (these) people without Faith.
5/69 Those who believe (in the Qur'an), those who follow the Jewish(scriptures), and the Sabians and the Christians,- any who believe in Allahand the Last Day, and work righteousness,- on them shall be no fear, norshall they grieve.
5/70 We took the covenant of the Children of Israel and sent themmessengers, every time, there came to them a messenger with what theythemselves desired not - some (of these) they called impostors, and somethey (go so far as to) slay.
5/71 They thought there would be no trial (or punishment); so theybecame blind and deaf; yet Allah (in mercy) turned to them; yet again many ofthem became blind and deaf. But Allah sees well all that they do.
5/72 They do blaspheme who say: "Allah is Christ the son of Mary."But said Christ: "O Children of Israel! worship Allah, my Lord and yourLord." Whoever joins other gods with Allah,- Allah will forbid him the garden,and the Fire will be his abode. There will for the wrong-doers be no one tohelp.
5/73 They do blaspheme who say: Allah is one of three in a Trinity:for there is no god except One Allah. If they desist not from their word (ofblasphemy), verily a grievous penalty will befall the blasphemers amongthem.
5/74 Why turn they not to Allah, and seek His forgiveness? For Allah isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
5/75 Christ the son of Mary was no more than a messenger; many werethe messengers that passed away before him. His mother was a woman of truth.They had both to eat their (daily) food. See how Allah doth make His signsclear to them; yet see in what ways they are deluded away from the truth!
5/76 Say: "Will ye worship, besides Allah, something which hath nopower either to harm or benefit you? But Allah,- He it is that heareth andknoweth all things."
5/77 Say: "O people of the Book! exceed not in your religion thebounds (of what is proper), trespassing beyond the truth, nor follow thevain desires of people who went wrong in times gone by,- who misled many,and strayed (themselves) from the even way.
5/78 Curses were pronounced on those among the Children of Israelwho rejected Faith, by the tongue of David and of Jesus the son of Mary:because they disobeyed and persisted in excesses.
5/79 Nor did they (usually) forbid one another the iniquities whichthey committed: evil indeed were the deeds which they did.
5/80 Thou seest many of them turning in friendship to theUnbelievers. Evil indeed are (the works) which their souls have sentforward before them (with the result), that Allah's wrath is on them, and intorment will they abide.
5/81 If only they had believed in Allah, in the Prophet, and in whathath been revealed to him, never would they have taken them for friends andprotectors, but most of them are rebellious wrong-doers.
5/82 Strongest among men in enmity to the believers wilt thou findthe Jews and Pagans; and nearest among them in love to the believers wiltthou find those who say, "We are Christians": because amongst these are mendevoted to learning and men who have renounced the world, and they are notarrogant.
5/83 And when they listen to the revelation received by theMessenger, thou wilt see their eyes overflowing with tears, for theyrecognise the truth: they pray: "Our Lord! we believe; write us down amongthe witnesses.
5/84 "What cause can we have not to believe in Allah and the truthwhich has come to us, seeing that we long for our Lord to admit us to thecompany of the righteous?"
5/85 And for this their prayer hath Allah rewarded them with gardens,with rivers flowing underneath,- their eternal home. Such is the recompenseof those who do good.
5/86 But those who reject Faith and belie our Signs,- they shall becompanions of Hell-fire.
5/87 O ye who believe! make not unlawful the good things which Allahhath made lawful for you, but commit no excess: for Allah loveth not thosegiven to excess.
5/88 Eat of the things which Allah hath provided for you, lawful andgood; but fear Allah, in Whom ye believe.
5/89 Allah will not call you to account for what is futile in youroaths, but He will call you to account for your deliberate oaths: forexpiation, feed ten indigent persons, on a scale of the average for thefood of your families; or clothe them; or give a slave his freedom. If thatis beyond your means, fast for three days. That is the expiation for theoaths ye have sworn. But keep to your oaths. Thus doth Allah make clear toyou His signs, that ye may be grateful.
5/90 O ye who believe! Intoxicants and gambling, (dedication of)stones, and (divination by) arrows, are an abomination,- of Satan'shandwork: eschew such (abomination), that ye may prosper.
5/91 Satan's plan is (but) to excite enmity and hatred between you,with intoxicants and gambling, and hinder you from the remembrance of Allah,and from prayer: will ye not then abstain?
5/92 Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and beware (of evil): if ye doturn back, know ye that it is Our Messenger's duty to proclaim (the message)in the clearest manner.
5/93 On those who believe and do deeds of righteousness there is noblame for what they ate (in the past), when they guard themselves fromevil, and believe, and do deeds of righteousness,- (or) again, guardthemselves from evil and believe,- (or) again, guard themselves from eviland do good. For Allah loveth those who do good.
5/94 O ye who believe! Allah doth but make a trial of you in a littlematter of game well within reach of game well within reach of your handsand your lances, that He may test who feareth him unseen: any whotransgress thereafter, will have a grievous penalty.
5/95 O ye who believe! Kill not game while in the sacred precinctsor in pilgrim garb. If any of you doth so intentionally, the compensationis an offering, brought to the Ka'ba, of a domestic animal equivalent tothe one he killed, as adjudged by two just men among you; or by way ofatonement, the feeding of the indigent; or its equivalent in fasts: that hemay taste of the penalty of his deed. Allah forgives what is past: forrepetition Allah will exact from him the penalty. For Allah is Exalted, andLord of Retribution.
5/96 Lawful to you is the pursuit of water-game and its use forfood,- for the benefit of yourselves and those who travel; but forbidden isthe pursuit of land-game;- as long as ye are in the sacred precincts or inpilgrim garb. And fear Allah, to Whom ye shall be gathered back.
5/97 Allah made the Ka'ba, the Sacred House, an asylum of securityfor men, as also the Sacred Months, the animals for offerings, and thegarlands that mark them: That ye may know that Allah hath knowledge of whatis in the heavens and on earth and that Allah is well acquainted with allthings.
5/98 Know ye that Allah is strict in punishment and that Allah isOft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
5/99 The Messenger's duty is but to proclaim (the message). But Allahknoweth all that ye reveal and ye conceal.
5/100 Say: "Not equal are things that are bad and things that aregood, even though the abundance of the bad may dazzle thee; so fear Allah, Oye that understand; that (so) ye may prosper."
5/101 O ye who believe! Ask not questions about things which, ifmade plain to you, may cause you trouble. But if ye ask about things whenthe Qur'an is being revealed, they will be made plain to you, Allah willforgive those: for Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Forbearing.
5/102 Some people before you did ask such questions, and on thataccount lost their faith.
5/103 It was not Allah who instituted (superstitions like those of) aslit-ear she-camel, or a she-camel let loose for free pasture, or idolsacrifices for twin-births in animals, or stallion-camels freed from work:It is blasphemers who invent a lie against Allah; but most of them lackwisdom.
5/104 When it is said to them: "Come to what Allah hath revealed; cometo the Messenger": They say: "Enough for us are the ways we found our fathersfollowing." what! even though their fathers were void of knowledge andguidance?
5/105 O ye who believe! Guard your own souls: If ye follow (right)guidance, no hurt can come to you from those who stray. the goal of you allis to Allah: it is He that will show you the truth of all that ye do.
5/106 O ye who believe! When death approaches any of you, (take)witnesses among yourselves when making bequests,- two just men of your own(brotherhood) or others from outside if ye are journeying through theearth, and the chance of death befalls you (thus). If ye doubt (theirtruth), detain them both after prayer, and let them both swear by Allah: "Wewish not in this for any worldly gain, even though the (beneficiary) be ournear relation: we shall hide not the evidence before Allah: if we do, thenbehold! the sin be upon us!"
5/107 But if it gets known that these two were guilty of the sin (ofperjury), let two others stand forth in their places,- nearest in kin fromamong those who claim a lawful right: let them swear by Allah: "We affirmthat our witness is truer than that of those two, and that we have nottrespassed (beyond the truth): if we did, behold! the wrong be upon us!"
5/108 That is most suitable: that they may give the evidence in itstrue nature and shape, or else they would fear that other oaths would betaken after their oaths. But fear Allah, and listen (to His counsel): for Allahguideth not a rebellious people:
5/109 One day will Allah gather the messengers together, and ask: "Whatwas the response ye received (from men to your teaching)?" They will say:"We have no knowledge: it is Thou Who knowest in full all that is hidden."
5/110 Then will Allah say: "O Jesus the son of Mary! Recount My favourto thee and to thy mother. Behold! I strengthened thee with the holyspirit, so that thou didst speak to the people in childhood and inmaturity. Behold! I taught thee the Book and Wisdom, the Law and the Gospeland behold! thou makest out of clay, as it were, the figure of a bird, byMy leave, and thou breathest into it and it becometh a bird by My leave,and thou healest those born blind, and the lepers, by My leave. And behold!thou bringest forth the dead by My leave. And behold! I did restrain theChildren of Israel from (violence to) thee when thou didst show them theclear Signs, and the unbelievers among them said: 'This is nothing butevident magic.'
5/111 "And behold! I inspired the disciples to have faith in Me andMine Messenger: they said, 'We have faith, and do thou bear witness that webow to Allah as Muslims'".
5/112 Behold! the disciples, said: "O Jesus the son of Mary! can thyLord send down to us  a table set (with viands) from heaven?" Said Jesus:"Fear Allah, if ye have faith."
5/113 They said: "We only wish to eat thereof and satisfy ourhearts, and to know that thou hast indeed told us the truth; and that weourselves may be witnesses to the miracle."
5/114 Said Jesus the son of Mary: "O Allah our Lord! Send us fromheaven a table set (with viands), that there may be for us - for the firstand the last of us - a solemn festival and a sign from thee; and providefor our sustenance, for thou art the best Sustainer (of our needs)."
5/115 Allah said: "I will send it down unto you: But if any of youafter that resisteth faith, I will punish him with a penalty such as I havenot inflicted on any one among all the peoples."
5/116 And behold! Allah will say: "O Jesus the son of Mary! Didst thousay unto men, worship me and my mother as gods in derogation of Allah'?" Hewill say: "Glory to Thee! never could I say what I had no right (to say).Had I said such a thing, thou wouldst indeed have known it. Thou knowestwhat is in my heart, Thou I know not what is in Thine. For Thou knowest infull all that is hidden.
5/117 "Never said I to them aught except what Thou didst command meto say, to wit, 'worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord'; and I was a witnessover them whilst I dwelt amongst them; when Thou didst take me up Thou wastthe Watcher over them, and Thou art a witness to all things.
5/118 "If Thou dost punish them, they are Thy servant: If Thou dostforgive them, Thou art the Exalted in power, the Wise."
5/119 Allah will say: "This is a day on which the truthful will profitfrom their truth: theirs are gardens, with rivers flowing beneath,- theireternal Home: Allah well-pleased with them, and they with Allah: That is thegreat salvation, (the fulfilment of all desires).
5/120 To Allah doth belong the dominion of the heavens and the earth,and all that is therein, and it is He Who hath power over all things.
