19/1 Kaf. Ha. Ya. 'Ain. Sad.
19/2 (This is) a recital of the Mercy of thy Lord to His servantZakariya.
19/3 Behold! he cried to his Lord in secret,
19/4 Praying: "O my Lord! infirm indeed are my bones, and the hairof my head doth glisten with grey: but never am I unblest, O my Lord, in myprayer to Thee!
19/5 "Now I fear (what) my relatives (and colleagues) (will do)after me: but my wife is barren: so give me an heir as from Thyself,-
19/6 "(One that) will (truly) represent me, and represent theposterity of Jacob; and make him, O my Lord! one with whom Thou artwell-pleased!"
19/7 (His prayer was answered): "O Zakariya! We give thee good newsof a son: His name shall be Yahya: on none by that name have We conferreddistinction before."
19/8 He said: "O my Lord! How shall I have a son, when my wife isbarren and I have grown quite decrepit from old age?"
19/9 He said: "So (it will be) thy Lord saith, 'that is easy forMe: I did indeed create thee before, when thou hadst been nothing!'"
19/10 (Zakariya) said: "O my Lord! give me a Sign." "Thy Sign," wasthe answer, "Shall be that thou shalt speak to no man for three nights,although thou art not dumb."
19/11 So Zakariya came out to his people from him chamber: He toldthem by signs to celebrate Allah's praises in the morning and in theevening.
19/12 (To his son came the command): "O Yahya! take hold of the Bookwith might": and We gave him Wisdom even as a youth,
19/13 And piety (for all creatures) as from Us, and purity: He wasdevout,
19/14 And kind to his parents, and he was not overbearing orrebellious.
19/15 So Peace on him the day he was born, the day that he dies, andthe day that he will be raised up to life (again)!
19/16 Relate in the Book (the story of) Mary, when she withdrew fromher family to a place in the East.
19/17 She placed a screen (to screen herself) from them; then Wesent her our angel, and he appeared before her as a man in all respects.
19/18 She said: "I seek refuge from thee to (Allah) Most Gracious:(come not near) if thou dost fear Allah."
19/19 He said: "Nay, I am only a messenger from thy Lord, (toannounce) to thee the gift of a holy son.
19/20 She said: "How shall I have a son, seeing that no man hastouched me, and I am not unchaste?"
19/21 He said: "So (it will be): Thy Lord saith, 'that is easy forMe: and (We wish) to appoint him as a Sign unto men and a Mercy from Us':Itis a matter (so) decreed."
19/22 So she conceived him, and she retired with him to a remoteplace.
19/23 And the pains of childbirth drove her to the trunk of apalm-tree: She cried (in her anguish):  "Ah! would that I had died beforethis! would that I had been a thing forgotten and out of sight!"
19/24 But (a voice) cried to her from beneath the (palm-tree):"Grieve not! for thy Lord hath provided a rivulet beneath thee;
19/25 "And shake towards thyself the trunk of the palm-tree: It willlet fall fresh ripe dates upon thee.
19/26 "So eat and drink and cool (thine) eye. And if thou dost seeany man, say, 'I have vowed a fast to (Allah) Most Gracious, and this daywill I enter into not talk with any human being'"
19/27 At length she brought the (babe) to her people, carrying him(in her arms). They said: "O Mary! truly an amazing thing hast thoubrought!
19/28 "O sister of Aaron! Thy father was not a man of evil, nor thymother a woman unchaste!"
19/29 But she pointed to the babe. They said: "How can we talk toone who is a child in the cradle?"
19/30 He said: "I am indeed a servant of Allah: He hath given merevelation and made me a prophet;
19/31 "And He hath made me blessed wheresoever I be, and hathenjoined on me Prayer and Charity as long as I live;
19/32 "(He) hath made me kind to my mother, and not overbearing ormiserable;
19/33 "So peace is on me the day I was born, the day that I die, andthe day that I shall be raised up to life (again)"!
19/34 Such (was) Jesus the son of Mary: (it is) a statement oftruth, about which they (vainly) dispute.
19/35 It is not befitting to (the majesty of) Allah that He shouldbeget a son. Glory be to Him! when He determines a matter, He only says toit, "Be", and it is.
19/36 Verily Allah is my Lord and your Lord: Him therefore serve ye:this is a Way that is straight.
19/37 But the sects differ among themselves: and woe to theunbelievers because of the (coming) Judgment of a Momentous Day!
19/38 How plainly will they see and hear, the Day that they willappear before Us! but the unjust today are in error manifest!
19/39 But warn them of the Day of Distress, when the matter will bedetermined: for (behold,) they are negligent and they do not believe!
19/40 It is We Who will inherit the earth, and all beings thereon:to Us will they all be returned.
19/41 (Also mention in the Book (the story of) Abraham: He was a manof Truth, a prophet.
19/42 Behold, he said to his father: "O my father! why worship thatwhich heareth not and seeth not, and can profit thee nothing?
19/43 "O my father! to me hath come knowledge which hath not reachedthee: so follow me: I will guide thee to a way that is even and straight.
19/44 "O my father! serve not Satan: for Satan is a rebel against(Allah) Most Gracious.
19/45 "O my father! I fear lest a Penalty afflict thee from (Allah)Most Gracious, so that thou become to Satan a friend."
19/46 (The father) replied: "Dost thou hate my gods, O Abraham? Ifthou forbear not, I will indeed stone thee: Now get away from me for a goodlong while!"
19/47 Abraham said: "Peace be on thee: I will pray to my Lord forthy forgiveness: for He is to me Most Gracious.
19/48 "And I will turn away from you (all) and from those whom yeinvoke besides Allah: I will call on my Lord: perhaps, by my prayer to myLord, I shall be not unblest."
19/49 When he had turned away from them and from those whom theyworshipped besides Allah, We bestowed on him Isaac and Jacob, and each one ofthem We made a prophet.
19/50 And We bestowed of Our Mercy on them, and We granted themlofty honour on the tongue of truth.
19/51 Also mention in the Book (the story of) Moses: for he wasspecially chosen, and he was a messenger (and) a prophet.
19/52 And we called him from the right side of Mount (Sinai), andmade him draw near to Us, for mystic (converse).
19/53 And, out of Our Mercy, We gave him his brother Aaron, (also) aprophet.
19/54 Also mention in the Book (the story of) Isma'il: He was(strictly) true to what he promised, and he was a messenger (and) aprophet.
19/55 He used to enjoin on his people Prayer and Charity, and he wasmost acceptable in the sight of his Lord.
19/56 Also mention in the Book the case of Idris: He was a man oftruth (and sincerity), (and) a prophet:
19/57 And We raised him to a lofty station.
19/58 Those were some of the prophets on whom Allah did bestow HisGrace,- of the posterity of Adam, and of those who We carried (in the Ark)with Noah, and of the posterity of Abraham and Israel of those whom Weguided and chose. Whenever the Signs of (Allah) Most Gracious were rehearsedto them, they would fall down in prostrate adoration and in tears.
19/59 But after them there followed a posterity who missed prayersand followed after lusts soon, then, will they face Destruction,-
19/60 Except those who repent and believe, and work righteousness:for these will enter the Garden and will not be wronged in the least,-
19/61 Gardens of Eternity, those which (Allah) Most Gracious haspromised to His servants in the Unseen: for His promise must (necessarily)come to pass.
19/62 They will not there hear any vain discourse, but onlysalutations of Peace: And they will have therein their sustenance, morningand evening.
19/63 Such is the Garden which We give as an inheritance to those ofOur servants who guard against Evil.
19/64 (The angels say:) "We descend not but by command of thy Lord:to Him belongeth what is before us and what is behind us, and what isbetween: and thy Lord never doth forget,-
19/65 "Lord of the heavens and of the earth, and of all that isbetween them; so worship Him, and be constant and patient in His worship:knowest thou of any who is worthy of the same Name as He?"
19/66 Man says: "What! When I am dead, shall I then be raised upalive?"
19/67 But does not man call to mind that We created him before outof nothing?
19/68 So, by thy Lord, without doubt, We shall gather them together,and (also) the Evil Ones (with them); then shall We bring them forth ontheir knees round about Hell;
19/69 Then shall We certainly drag out from every sect all those whowere worst in obstinate rebellion against (Allah) Most Gracious.
19/70 And certainly We know best those who are most worthy of beingburned therein.
19/71 Not one of you but will pass over it: this is, with thy Lord,a Decree which must be accomplished.
19/72 But We shall save those who guarded against evil, and We shallleave the wrong-doers therein, (humbled) to their knees.
19/73 When Our Clear Signs are rehearsed to them, the Unbelieverssay to those who believe, "Which of the two sides is best in point ofposition? Which makes the best show in council?"
19/74 But how many (countless) generations before them have wedestroyed, who were even better in equipment and in glitter to the eye?
19/75 Say: "If any men go astray, (Allah) Most Gracious extends (therope) to them, until, when they see the warning of Allah (being fulfilled) -either in punishment or in (the approach of) the Hour,- they will at lengthrealise who is worst in position, and (who) weakest in forces!
19/76 "And Allah doth advance in guidance those who seek guidance: andthe things that endure, Good Deeds, are best in the sight of thy Lord, asrewards, and best in respect of (their) eventual return."
19/77 Hast thou then seen the (sort of) man who rejects Our Signs,yet says: "I shall certainly be given wealth and children?"
19/78 Has he penetrated to the Unseen, or has he taken a contractwith (Allah) Most Gracious?
19/79 Nay! We shall record what he says, and We shall add and add tohis punishment.
19/80 To Us shall return all that he talks of and he shall appearbefore Us bare and alone.
19/81 And they have taken (for worship) gods other than Allah, to givethem power and glory!
19/82 Instead, they shall reject their worship, and becomeadversaries against them.
19/83 Seest thou not that We have set the Evil Ones on against theunbelievers, to incite them with fury?
19/84 So make no haste against them, for We but count out to them a(limited) number (of days).
19/85 The day We shall gather the righteous to (Allah) Most Gracious,like a band presented before a king for honours,
19/86 And We shall drive the sinners to Hell, like thirsty cattledriven down to water,-
19/87 None shall have the power of intercession, but such a one ashas received permission (or promise) from (Allah) Most Gracious.
19/88 They say: "(Allah) Most Gracious has begotten a son!"
19/89 Indeed ye have put forth a thing most monstrous!
19/90 At it the skies are ready to burst, the earth to splitasunder, and the mountains to fall down in utter ruin,
19/91 That they should invoke a son for (Allah) Most Gracious.
19/92 For it is not consonant with the majesty of (Allah) MostGracious that He should beget a son.
19/93 Not one of the beings in the heavens and the earth but mustcome to (Allah) Most Gracious as a servant.
19/94 He does take an account of them (all), and hath numbered them(all) exactly.
19/95 And everyone of them will come to Him singly on the Day ofJudgment.
19/96 On those who believe and work deeds of righteousness, will(Allah) Most Gracious bestow love.
19/97 So have We made the (Qur'an) easy in thine own tongue, thatwith it thou mayest give Glad Tidings to the righteous, and warnings topeople given to contention.
19/98 But how many (countless) generations before them have Wedestroyed? Canst thou find a single one of them (now) or hear (so much as)a whisper of them?
