58/1 Allah has indeed heard (and accepted) the statement of the womanwho pleads with thee concerning her husband and carries her complaint (inprayer) to Allah: and Allah (always) hears the arguments between both sidesamong you: for Allah hears and sees (all things).
58/2 If any men among you divorce their wives by Zihar (callingthem mothers), they cannot be their mothers:  None can be their mothersexcept those who gave them birth. And in fact they use words (both)iniquitous and false: but truly Allah is one that blots out (sins), andforgives (again and again).
58/3 But those who divorce their wives by Zihar, then wish to goback on the words they uttered,- (It is ordained that such a one) shouldfree a slave before they touch each other: Thus are ye admonished toperform: and Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do.
58/4 And if any has not (the wherewithal), he should fast for twomonths consecutively before they touch each other.  But if any is unable todo so, he should feed sixty indigent ones, this, that ye may show yourfaith in Allah and His Messenger. Those are limits (set by) Allah. For those whoreject (Him), there is a grievous Penalty.
58/5 Those who resist Allah and His Messenger will be humbled to dust,as were those before them: for We have already sent down Clear Signs. Andthe Unbelievers (will have) a humiliating Penalty,-
58/6 On the Day that Allah will raise them all up (again) and showthem the Truth (and meaning) of their conduct. Allah has reckoned its(value), though they may have forgotten it, for Allah is Witness to allthings.
58/7 Seest thou not that Allah doth know (all) that is in the heavensand on earth? There is not a secret consultation between three, but Hemakes the fourth among them, - Nor between five but He makes the sixth,-nor between fewer nor more, but He is in their midst, wheresoever they be:In the end will He tell them the truth of their conduct, on the Day ofJudgment. For Allah has full knowledge of all things.
58/8 Turnest thou not thy sight towards those who were forbiddensecret counsels yet revert to that which they were forbidden (to do)? Andthey hold secret counsels among themselves for iniquity and hostility, anddisobedience to the Messenger. And when they come to thee, they salute thee,not as Allah salutes thee, (but in crooked ways): And they say to themselves,"Why does not Allah punish us for our words?" Enough for them is Hell: In itwill they burn, and evil is that destination!
58/9 O ye who believe! When ye hold secret counsel, do it not foriniquity and hostility, and disobedience to the Prophet; but do it forrighteousness and self-restraint;  and fear Allah, to Whom ye shall bebrought back.
58/10 Secret counsels are only (inspired) by the Evil One, in orderthat he may cause grief to the Believers; but he cannot harm them in theleast, except as Allah permits; and on Allah let the Believers put theirtrust.
58/11 O ye who believe! When ye are told to make room in theassemblies, (spread out and) make room: (ample) room will Allah provide foryou. And when ye are told to rise up, rise up Allah will rise up, to(suitable) ranks (and degrees), those of you who believe and who have beengranted (mystic) Knowledge. And Allah is well-acquainted with all ye do.
58/12 O ye who believe! When ye consult the Messenger in private,spend something in charity before your private consultation. That will bebest for you, and most conducive to purity (of conduct). But if ye find not(the wherewithal), Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
58/13 Is it that ye are afraid of spending sums in charity beforeyour private consultation (with him)? If, then, ye do not so, and Allahforgives you, then (at least) establish regular prayer; practise regularcharity; and obey Allah and His Messenger. And Allah is well-acquainted with allthat ye do.
58/14 Turnest thou not thy attention to those who turn (infriendship) to such as have the Wrath of Allah upon them? They are neither ofyou nor of them, and they swear to falsehood knowingly.
58/15 Allah has prepared for them a severe Penalty: evil indeed aretheir deeds.
58/16 They have made their oaths a screen (for their misdeeds): thusthey obstruct (men) from the Path of Allah: therefore shall they have ahumiliating Penalty.
58/17 Of no profit whatever to them, against Allah, will be theirriches nor their sons: they will be Companions of the Fire, to dwelltherein (for aye)!
58/18 One day will Allah raise them all up (for Judgment): then willthey swear to Him as they swear to you: And they think that they havesomething (to stand upon). No, indeed! they are but liars!
58/19 The Evil One has got the better of them: so he has made themlose the remembrance of Allah. They are the Party of the Evil One. Truly, itis the Party of the Evil One that will perish!
58/20 Those who resist Allah and His Messenger will be among those mosthumiliated.
58/21 Allah has decreed: "It is I and My messengers who must prevail":For Allah is One full of strength, able to enforce His Will.
58/22 Thou wilt not find any people who believe in Allah and the LastDay, loving those who resist Allah and His Messenger, even though they weretheir fathers or their sons, or their brothers, or their kindred. For suchHe has written Faith in their hearts, and strengthened them with a spiritfrom Himself. And He will admit them to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow,to dwell therein (for ever). Allah will be well pleased with them, and theywith Him. They  are the Party of Allah. Truly it is the Party of Allah thatwill achieve Felicity.
