47/1 Those who reject Allah and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah,-their deeds will Allah render astray (from their mark).
47/2 But those who believe and work deeds of righteousness, andbelieve in the (Revelation) sent down to Muhammad - for it is the Truthfrom their Lord,- He will remove from them their ills and improve theircondition.
47/3 This because those who reject Allah follow vanities, while thosewho believe follow the Truth from their Lord: Thus does Allah set forth formen their lessons by similitudes.
47/4 Therefore, when ye meet the Unbelievers (in fight), smite attheir necks; At length, when ye have thoroughly subdued them, bind a bondfirmly (on them): thereafter (is the time for) either generosity or ransom:Until the war lays down its burdens. Thus (are ye commanded): but if it hadbeen Allah's Will, He could certainly have exacted retribution from them(Himself); but (He lets you fight) in order to test you, some with others.But those who are slain in the Way of Allah,- He will never let their deedsbe lost.
47/5 Soon will He guide them and improve their condition,
47/6 And admit them to the Garden which He has announced for them.
47/7 O ye who believe! If ye will aid (the cause of) Allah, He willaid you, and plant your feet firmly.
47/8 But those who reject (Allah),- for them is destruction, and(Allah) will render their deeds astray (from their mark).
47/9 That is because they hate the Revelation of Allah; so He hasmade their deeds fruitless.
47/10 Do they not travel through the earth, and see what was the Endof those before them (who did evil)? Allah brought utter destruction on them,and similar (fates await) those who reject Allah.
47/11 That is because Allah is the Protector of those who believe, butthose who reject Allah have no protector.
47/12 Verily Allah will admit those who believe and do righteousdeeds, to Gardens beneath which rivers flow; while those who reject Allahwill enjoy (this world) and eat as cattle eat; and the Fire will be theirabode.
47/13 And how many cities, with more power than thy city which hasdriven thee out, have We destroyed (for their sins)? and there was none toaid them.
47/14 Is then one who is on a clear (Path) from his Lord, no betterthan one to whom the evil of his conduct seems pleasing, and such as followtheir own lusts?
47/15 (Here is) a Parable of the Garden which the righteous arepromised: in it are rivers of water incorruptible; rivers of milk of whichthe taste never changes; rivers of wine, a joy to those who drink; andrivers of honey pure and clear. In it there are for them all kinds offruits; and Grace from their Lord. (Can those in such Bliss) be compared tosuch as shall dwell for ever in the Fire, and be given, to drink, boilingwater, so that it cuts up their bowels (to pieces)?
47/16 And among them are men who listen to thee, but in the end,when they go out from thee, they say to those who have received Knowledge,"What is it he said just then?" Such are men whose hearts Allah has sealed,and who follow their own lusts.
47/17 But to those who receive Guidance, He increases the (light of)Guidance, and bestows on them their Piety and Restraint (from evil).
47/18 Do they then only wait for the Hour,- that it should come onthem of a sudden? But already have come some tokens thereof, and when it(actually) is on them, how can they benefit then by their admonition?
47/19 Know, therefore, that there is no god but Allah, and askforgiveness for thy fault, and for the men and women who believe: for Allahknows how ye move about and how ye dwell in your homes.
47/20 Those who believe say, "Why is not a sura sent down (for us)?"But when a sura of basic or categorical meaning is revealed, and fightingis mentioned therein, thou wilt see those in whose hearts is a diseaselooking at thee with a look of one in swoon at the approach of death. Butmore fitting for them-
47/21 Were it to obey and say what is just, and when a matter isresolved on, it were best for them if they were true to Allah.
47/22 Then, is it to be expected of you, if ye were put inauthority, that ye will do mischief in the land, and break your ties ofkith and kin?
47/23 Such are the men whom Allah has cursed for He has made them deafand blinded their sight.
47/24 Do they not then earnestly seek to understand the Qur'an, orare their hearts locked up by them?
47/25 Those who turn back as apostates after Guidance was clearlyshown to them,- the Evil One has instigated them and busied them up withfalse hopes.
47/26 This, because they said to those who hate what Allah hasrevealed, "We will obey you in part of (this) matter"; but Allah knows their(inner) secrets.
47/27 But how (will it be) when the angels take their souls atdeath, and smite their faces and their backs?
47/28 This because they followed that which called forth the Wrathof Allah, and they hated Allah's good pleasure; so He made their deeds of noeffect.
47/29 Or do those in whose hearts is a disease, think that Allah willnot bring to light all their rancour?
47/30 Had We so wiled, We could have shown them up to thee, and thoushouldst have known them by their marks: but surely thou wilt know them bythe tone of their speech! And Allah knows all that ye do.
47/31 And We shall try you until We test those among you who strivetheir utmost and persevere in patience; and We shall try your reported(mettle).
47/32 Those who reject Allah, hinder (men) from the Path of Allah, andresist the Messenger, after Guidance has been clearly shown to them, will notinjure Allah in the least, but He will make their deeds of no effect.
47/33 O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the messenger, and make notvain your deeds!
47/34 Those who reject Allah, and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah,then die rejecting Allah,- Allah will not forgive them.
47/35 Be not weary and faint-hearted, crying for peace, when yeshould be uppermost: for Allah is with you, and will never put you in lossfor your (good) deeds.
47/36 The life of this world is but play and amusement: and if yebelieve and guard against Evil, He will grant you your recompense, and willnot ask you (to give up) your possessions.
47/37 If He were to ask you for all of them, and press you, ye wouldcovetously withhold, and He would bring out all your ill-feeling.
47/38 Behold, ye are those invited to spend (of your substance) inthe Way of Allah: But among you are some that are niggardly. But any who areniggardly are so at the expense of their own souls. But Allah is free of allwants, and it is ye that are needy. If ye turn back (from the Path), Hewill substitute in your stead another people; then they would not be likeyou!
