67/1 Blessed be He in Whose hands is Dominion; and He over allthings hath Power;-
67/2 He Who created Death and Life, that He may try which of you isbest in deed: and He is the Exalted in Might, Oft-Forgiving;-
67/3 He Who created the seven heavens one above another: No want ofproportion wilt thou see in the Creation of (Allah) Most Gracious. So turnthy vision again: seest thou any flaw?
67/4 Again turn thy vision a second time: (thy) vision will comeback to thee dull and discomfited, in a state worn out.
67/5 And we have, (from of old), adorned the lowest heaven withLamps, and We have made such (Lamps) (as) missiles to drive away the EvilOnes, and have prepared for them the Penalty of the Blazing Fire.
67/6 For those who reject their Lord (and Cherisher) is the Penaltyof Hell: and evil is (such), Destination.
67/7 When they are cast therein, they will hear the (terrible)drawing in of its breath even as it blazes forth,
67/8 Almost bursting with fury: Every time a Group is cast therein,its Keepers will ask, "Did no Warner come to you?"
67/9 They will say: "Yes indeed; a Warner did come to us, but werejected him and said, 'Allah never sent down any (Message): ye are nothingbut an egregious delusion!'"
67/10 They will further say: "Had we but listened or used ourintelligence, we should not (now) be among the Companions of the BlazingFire!"
67/11 They will then confess their sins: but far will be(Forgiveness) from the Companions of the Blazing Fire!
67/12 As for those who fear their Lord unseen, for them isForgiveness and a great Reward.
67/13 And whether ye hide your word or publish it, He certainly has(full) knowledge, of the secrets of (all) hearts.
67/14 Should He not know,- He that created? and He is the One thatunderstands the finest mysteries (and) is well-acquainted (with them).
67/15 It is He Who has made the earth manageable for you, sotraverse ye through its tracts and enjoy of the Sustenance which Hefurnishes: but unto Him is the Resurrection.
67/16 Do ye feel secure that He Who is in heaven will not cause youto be swallowed up by the earth when it shakes (as in an earthquake)?
67/17 Or do ye feel secure that He Who is in Heaven will not sendagainst you a violent tornado (with showers of stones), so that ye shallknow how (terrible) was My warning?
67/18 But indeed men before them rejected (My warning): then how(terrible) was My rejection (of them)?
67/19 Do they not observe the birds above them, spreading theirwings and folding them in? None can uphold them except (Allah) Most Gracious:Truly (Allah) Most Gracious: Truly it is He that watches over all things.
67/20 Nay, who is there that can help you, (even as) an army,besides (Allah) Most Merciful? In nothing but delusion are the Unbelievers.
67/21 Or who is there that can provide you with Sustenance if Hewere to withhold His provision? Nay, they obstinately persist in insolentimpiety and flight (from the Truth).
67/22 Is then one who walks headlong, with his face grovelling,better guided,- or one who walks evenly on a Straight Way?
67/23 Say: "It is He Who has created you (and made you grow), andmade for you the faculties of hearing, seeing, feeling and understanding:little thanks it is ye give.
67/24 Say: "It is He Who has multiplied you through the earth, andto Him shall ye be gathered together."
67/25 They ask: When will this promise be (fulfilled)? - If ye aretelling the truth.
67/26 Say: "As to the knowledge of the time, it is with Allah alone: Iam (sent) only to warn plainly in public."
67/27 At length, when they see it close at hand, grieved will be thefaces of the Unbelievers, and it will be said (to them): "This is (thepromise fulfilled), which ye were calling for!"
67/28 Say: "See ye?- If Allah were to destroy me, and those with me,or if He bestows His Mercy on us,- yet who can deliver the Unbelievers froma grievous Penalty?"
67/29 Say: "He is (Allah) Most Gracious: We have believed in Him, andon Him have we put our trust: So, soon will ye know which (of us) it isthat is in manifest error."
67/30 Say: "See ye?- If your stream be some morning lost (in theunderground earth),  who then can supply you with clear-flowing water?"
