60/1 O ye who believe! Take not my enemies and yours as friends (orprotectors),- offering them (your) love, even though they have rejected theTruth that has come to you, and have (on the contrary) driven out theProphet and yourselves (from your homes), (simply) because ye believe inAllah your Lord! If ye have come out to strive in My Way and to seek My GoodPleasure, (take them not as friends), holding secret converse of love (andfriendship) with them: for I know full well all that ye conceal and allthat ye reveal. And any of you that does this has strayed from the StraightPath.
60/2 If they were to get the better of you, they would behave toyou as enemies, and stretch forth their hands and their tongues against youfor evil: and they desire that ye should reject the Truth.
60/3 Of no profit to you will be your relatives and your childrenon the Day of Judgment: He will judge between you: for Allah sees well allthat ye do.
60/4 There is for you an excellent example (to follow) in Abrahamand those with him, when they said to their people: "We are clear of youand of whatever ye worship besides Allah: we have rejected you, and there hasarisen, between us and you, enmity and hatred for ever,- unless ye believein Allah and Him alone": But not when Abraham said to his father: "I willpray for forgiveness for thee, though I have no power (to get) aught on thybehalf from Allah." (They prayed): "Our Lord! in Thee do we trust, and toThee do we turn in repentance: to Thee is (our) Final Goal.
60/5 "Our Lord! Make us not a (test and) trial for the Unbelievers,but forgive us, our Lord! for Thou art the Exalted in Might, the Wise."
60/6 There was indeed in them an excellent example for you tofollow,- for those whose hope is in Allah and in the Last Day. But if anyturn away, truly Allah is Free of all Wants, Worthy of all Praise.
60/7 It may be that Allah will grant love (and friendship) betweenyou and those whom ye (now) hold as enemies. For Allah has power (over allthings); And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
60/8 Allah forbids you not, with regard to those who fight you notfor (your) Faith nor drive you out of your homes, from dealing kindly andjustly with them: for Allah loveth those who are just.
60/9 Allah only forbids you, with regard to those who fight you for(your) Faith, and drive you out of your homes, and support (others) indriving you out, from turning to them (for friendship and protection). Itis such as turn to them (in these circumstances), that do wrong.
60/10 O ye who believe! When there come to you believing womenrefugees, examine (and test) them:  Allah knows best as to their Faith: if yeascertain that they are Believers, then send them not back to theUnbelievers. They are not lawful (wives) for the Unbelievers, nor are the(Unbelievers) lawful (husbands) for them. But pay the Unbelievers what theyhave spent (on their dower), and there will be no blame on you if ye marrythem on payment of their dower to them. But hold not to the guardianship ofunbelieving women: ask for what ye have spent on their dowers, and let the(Unbelievers) ask for what they have spent (on the dowers of women who comeover to you). Such is the command of Allah: He judges (with justice) betweenyou. And Allah is Full of Knowledge and Wisdom.
60/11 And if any of your wives deserts you to the Unbelievers, andye have an accession (by the coming over of a woman from the other side),then pay to those whose wives have deserted the equivalent of what they hadspent (on their dower). And fear Allah, in Whom ye believe.
60/12 O Prophet! When believing women come to thee to take the oathof fealty to thee, that they will not associate in worship any other thingwhatever with Allah, that they will not steal, that they will not commitadultery (or fornication), that they will not kill their children, thatthey will not utter slander, intentionally forging falsehood, and that theywill not disobey thee in any just matter,- then do thou receive theirfealty, and pray to Allah for the forgiveness (of their sins): for Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
60/13 O ye who believe! Turn not (for friendship) to people on whomis the Wrath of Allah, of the Hereafter they are already in despair, just asthe Unbelievers are in despair about those (buried) in graves.
