63/1 When the Hypocrites come to thee, they say, "We bear witnessthat thou art indeed the Messenger of Allah." Yea, Allah knoweth that thou artindeed His Messenger, and Allah beareth witness that the Hypocrites are indeedliars.
63/2 They have made their oaths a screen (for their misdeeds): thusthey obstruct (men) from the Path of Allah: truly evil are their deeds.
63/3 That is because they believed, then they rejected Faith: So aseal was set on their hearts: therefore they understand not.
63/4 When thou lookest at them, their exteriors please thee; andwhen they speak, thou listenest to their words. They are as (worthless ashollow) pieces of timber propped up, (unable to stand on their own). Theythink that every cry is against them. They are the enemies; so beware ofthem. The curse of Allah be on them! How are they deluded (away from theTruth)!
63/5 And when it is said to them, "Come, the Messenger of Allah willpray for your forgiveness", they turn aside their heads, and thou wouldstsee them turning away their faces in arrogance.
63/6 It is equal to them whether thou pray for their forgiveness ornot. Allah will not forgive them. Truly Allah guides not rebellioustransgressors.
63/7 They are the ones who say, "Spend nothing on those who arewith Allah's Messenger, to the end that they may disperse (and quit Medina)."But to Allah belong the treasures of the heavens and the earth; but theHypocrites understand not.
63/8 They say, "If we return to Medina, surely the more honourable(element) will expel therefrom the meaner." But honour belongs to Allah andHis Messenger, and to the Believers; but the Hypocrites know not.
63/9 O ye who believe! Let not your riches or your children divertyou from the remembrance of Allah. If any act thus, the loss is their own.
63/10 and spend something (in charity) out of the substance which Wehave bestowed on you, before Death should come to any of you and he shouldsay, "O my Lord! why didst Thou not give me respite for a little while? Ishould then have given (largely) in charity, and I should have been one ofthe doers of good".
63/11 But to no soul will Allah grant respite when the time appointed(for it) has come; and Allah is well acquainted with (all) that ye do.
