73/1 O thou folded in garments!
73/2 Stand (to prayer) by night, but not all night,-
73/3 Half of it,- or a little less,
73/4 Or a little more; and recite the Qur'an in slow, measuredrhythmic tones.
73/5 Soon shall We send down to thee a weighty Message.
73/6 Truly the rising by night is most potent for governing (thesoul), and most suitable for (framing) the Word (of Prayer and Praise).
73/7 True, there is for thee by day prolonged occupation withordinary duties:
73/8 But keep in remembrance the name of thy Lord and devotethyself to Him whole-heartedly.
73/9 (He is) Lord of the East and the West: there is no god but He:take Him therefore for (thy) Disposer of Affairs.
73/10 And have patience with what they say, and leave them withnoble (dignity).
73/11 And leave Me (alone to deal with) those in possession of thegood things of life, who (yet) deny the Truth; and bear with them for alittle while.
73/12 With Us are Fetters (to bind them), and a Fire (to burnthem),
73/13 And a Food that chokes, and a Penalty Grievous.
73/14 One Day the earth and the mountains will be in violentcommotion. And the mountains will be as a heap of sand poured out andflowing down.
73/15 We have sent to you, (O men!) a messenger, to be a witnessconcerning you, even as We sent a messenger to Pharaoh.
73/16 But Pharaoh disobeyed the messenger; so We seized him with aheavy Punishment.
73/17 Then how shall ye, if ye deny (Allah), guard yourselves againsta Day that will make children hoary-headed?-
73/18 Whereon the sky will be cleft asunder? His Promise needs mustbe accomplished.
73/19 Verily this is an Admonition: therefore, whoso will, let himtake a (straight) path to his Lord!
73/20 Thy Lord doth know that thou standest forth (to prayer) nightwo-thirds of the night, or half the night, or a third of the night, and sodoth a party of those with thee. But Allah doth appoint night and day in duemeasure He knoweth that ye are unable to keep count thereof. So He hathturned to you (in mercy): read ye, therefore, of the Qur'an as much as maybe easy for you. He knoweth that there may be (some) among you inill-health; others travelling through the land, seeking of Allah's bounty;yet others fighting in Allah's Cause, read ye, therefore, as much of theQur'an as may be easy (for you); and establish regular Prayer and giveregular Charity; and loan to Allah a Beautiful Loan. And whatever good yesend forth for your souls ye shall find it in Allah's Presence,- yea, betterand greater, in Reward and seek ye the Grace of Allah: for Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
