16/1 (Inevitable) cometh (to pass) the Command of Allah: seek ye notthen to hasten it: Glory to Him, and far is He above having the partnersthey ascribe unto Him!
16/2 He doth send down His angels with inspiration of His Command,to such of His servants as He pleaseth, (saying): "Warn (Man) that there isno god but I: so do your duty unto Me."
16/3 He has created the heavens and the earth for just ends: Far isHe above having the partners they ascribe to Him!
16/4 He has created man from a sperm-drop; and behold this same(man) becomes an open disputer!
16/5 And cattle He has created for you (men): from them ye derivewarmth, and numerous benefits, and of their (meat) ye eat.
16/6 And ye have a sense of pride and beauty in them as ye drivethem home in the evening, and as ye lead them forth to pasture in themorning.
16/7 And they carry your heavy loads to lands that ye could not(otherwise) reach except with souls distressed: for your Lord is indeedMost Kind, Most Merciful,
16/8 And (He has created) horses, mules, and donkeys, for you toride and use for show; and He has created (other) things of which ye haveno knowledge.
16/9 And unto Allah leads straight the Way, but there are ways thatturn aside: if Allah had willed, He could have guided all of you.
16/10 It is He who sends down rain from the sky: from it ye drink,and out of it (grows) the vegetation on which ye feed your cattle.
16/11 With it He produces for you corn, olives, date-palms, grapesand every kind of fruit: verily in this is a sign for those who givethought.
16/12 He has made subject to you the Night and the Day; the sun andthe moon; and the stars are in subjection by His Command: verily in thisare Signs for men who are wise.
16/13 And the things on this earth which He has multiplied invarying colours (and qualities): verily in this is a sign for men whocelebrate the praises of Allah (in gratitude).
16/14 It is He Who has made the sea subject, that ye may eat thereofflesh that is fresh and tender, and that ye may extract therefrom ornamentsto wear; and thou seest the ships therein that plough the waves, that yemay seek (thus) of the bounty of Allah and that ye may be grateful.
16/15 And He has set up on the earth mountains standing firm, lestit should shake with you; and rivers and roads; that ye may guideyourselves;
16/16 And marks and sign-posts; and by the stars (men) guidethemselves.
16/17 Is then He Who creates like one that creates not? Will ye notreceive admonition?
16/18 If ye would count up the favours of Allah, never would ye beable to number them: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
16/19 And Allah doth know what ye conceal, and what ye reveal.
16/20 Those whom they invoke besides Allah create nothing and arethemselves created.
16/21 (They are things) dead, lifeless: nor do they know when theywill be raised up.
16/22 Your Allah is one Allah: as to those who believe not in theHereafter, their hearts refuse to know, and they are arrogant.
16/23 Undoubtedly Allah doth know what they conceal, and what theyreveal: verily He loveth not the arrogant.
16/24 When it is said to them, "What is it that your Lord hasrevealed?" they say, "Tales of the ancients!"
16/25 Let them bear, on the Day of Judgment, their own burdens infull, and also (something) of the burdens of those without knowledge, whomthey misled. Alas, how grievous the burdens they will bear!
16/26 Those before them did also plot (against Allah's Way): but Allahtook their structures from their foundations, and the roof fell down onthem from above; and the Wrath seized them from directions they did notperceive.
16/27 Then, on the Day of Judgment, He will cover them with shame,and say: "Where are My 'partners' concerning whom ye used to dispute (withthe godly)?" Those endued with knowledge will say: "This Day, indeed, arethe Unbelievers covered with shame and misery,-
16/28 "(Namely) those whose lives the angels take in a state ofwrong-doing to their own souls." Then would they offer submission (with thepretence), "We did no evil (knowingly)." (The angels will reply), "Nay, butverily Allah knoweth all that ye did;
16/29 "So enter the gates of Hell, to dwell therein. Thus evilindeed is the abode of the arrogant."
16/30 To the righteous (when) it is said, "What is it that your Lordhas revealed?" they say, "All that is good." To those who do good, there isgood in this world, and the Home of the Hereafter is even better andexcellent indeed is the Home of the righteous,-
16/31 Gardens of Eternity which they will enter: beneath them flow(pleasant) rivers: they will have therein all that they wish: thus doth Allahreward the righteous,-
16/32 (Namely) those whose lives the angels take in a state ofpurity, saying (to them), "Peace be on you; enter ye the Garden, because of(the good) which ye did (in the world)."
16/33 Do the (ungodly) wait until the angels come to them, or therecomes the Command of thy Lord (for their doom)? So did those who wentbefore them. But Allah wronged them not: nay, they wronged their own souls.
16/34 But the evil results of their deeds overtook them, and thatvery (Wrath) at which they had scoffed hemmed them in.
16/35 The worshippers of false gods say: "If Allah had so willed, weshould not have worshipped aught but Him - neither we nor our fathers,- norshould we have prescribed prohibitions other than His." So did those whowent before them. But what is the mission of messengers but to preach theClear Message?
16/36 For We assuredly sent amongst every People a messenger, (withthe Command), "Serve Allah, and eschew Evil": of the People were some whomAllah guided, and some on whom error became inevitably (established). Sotravel through the earth, and see what was the end of those who denied (theTruth).
16/37 If thou art anxious for their guidance, yet Allah guideth notsuch as He leaves to stray, and there is none to help them.
16/38 They swear their strongest oaths by Allah, that Allah will notraise up those who die: Nay, but it is a promise (binding) on Him in truth:but most among mankind realise it not.
16/39 (They must be raised up), in order that He may manifest tothem the truth of that wherein they differ, and that the rejecters of Truthmay realise that they had indeed (surrendered to) Falsehood.
16/40 For to anything which We have willed, We but say the word,"Be", and it is.
16/41 To those who leave their homes in the cause of Allah, aftersuffering oppression,- We will assuredly give a goodly home in this world;but truly the reward of the Hereafter will be greater. If they onlyrealised (this)!
16/42 (They are) those who persevere in patience, and put theirtrust on their Lord.
16/43 And before thee also the messengers We sent were but men, towhom We granted inspiration: if ye realise this not, ask of those whopossess the Message.
16/44 (We sent them) with Clear Signs and Books of dark prophecies;and We have sent down unto thee (also) the Message; that thou mayestexplain clearly to men what is sent for them, and that they may givethought.
16/45 Do then those who devise evil (plots) feel secure that Allahwill not cause the earth to swallow them up, or that the Wrath will notseize them from directions they little perceive?-
16/46 Or that He may not call them to account in the midst of theirgoings to and fro, without a chance of their frustrating Him?-
16/47 Or that He may not call them to account by a process of slowwastage - for thy Lord is indeed full of kindness and mercy.
16/48 Do they not look at Allah's creation, (even) among (inanimate)things,- How their (very) shadows turn round, from the right and the left,prostrating themselves to Allah, and that in the humblest manner?
16/49 And to Allah doth obeisance all that is in the heavens and onearth, whether moving (living) creatures or the angels: for none arearrogant (before their Lord).
16/50 They all revere their Lord, high above them, and they do allthat they are commanded.
16/51 Allah has said: "Take not (for worship) two gods: for He is justOne Allah: then fear Me (and Me alone)."
16/52 To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and on earth, and toHim is duty due always: then will ye fear other than Allah?
16/53 And ye have no good thing but is from Allah: and moreover, whenye are touched by distress, unto Him ye cry with groans;
16/54 Yet, when He removes the distress from you, behold! some ofyou turn to other gods to join with their Lord-
16/55 (As if) to show their ingratitude for the favours we havebestowed on them! then enjoy (your brief day): but soon will ye know (yourfolly)!
16/56 And they (even) assign, to things they do not know, a portionout of that which We have bestowed for their sustenance! By Allah, ye shallcertainly be called to account for your false inventions.
16/57 And they assign daughters for Allah! - Glory be to Him! - andfor themselves (sons,- the issue) they desire!
16/58 When news is brought to one of them, of (the birth of) afemale (child), his face darkens, and he is filled with inward grief!
16/59 With shame does he hide himself from his people, because ofthe bad news he has had! Shall he retain it on (sufferance and) contempt,or bury it in the dust? Ah! what an evil (choice) they decide on?
16/60 To those who believe not in the Hereafter, applies thesimilitude of evil: to Allah applies the highest similitude: for He is theExalted in Power, full of Wisdom.
16/61 If Allah were to punish men for their wrong-doing, He would notleave, on the (earth), a single living creature: but He gives them respitefor a stated Term: When their Term expires, they would not be able to delay(the punishment) for a single hour, just as they would not be able toanticipate it (for a single hour).
16/62 They attribute to Allah what they hate (for themselves), andtheir tongues assert the falsehood that all good things are for themselves:without doubt for them is the Fire, and they will be the first to behastened on into it!
16/63 By Allah, We (also) sent (Our messengers) to Peoples before thee;but Satan made, (to the wicked), their own acts seem alluring: He is alsotheir patron today, but they shall have a most grievous penalty.
16/64 And We sent down the Book to thee for the express purpose,that thou shouldst make clear to them those things in which they differ,and that it should be a guide and a mercy to those who believe.
16/65 And Allah sends down rain from the skies, and gives therewithlife to the earth after its death: verily in this is a Sign for those wholisten.
16/66 And verily in cattle (too) will ye find an instructive sign.From what is within their bodies between excretions and blood, We produce,for your drink, milk, pure and agreeable to those who drink it.
16/67 And from the fruit of the date-palm and the vine, ye get outwholesome drink and food: behold, in this also is a sign for those who arewise.
16/68 And thy Lord taught the Bee to build its cells in hills, ontrees, and in (men's) habitations;
16/69 Then to eat of all the produce (of the earth), and find withskill the spacious paths of its Lord: there issues from within their bodiesa drink of varying colours, wherein is healing for men: verily in this is aSign for those who give thought.
16/70 It is Allah who creates you and takes your souls at death; andof you there are some who are sent back to a feeble age, so that they knownothing after having known (much): for Allah is All-Knowing, All-Powerful.
16/71 Allah has bestowed His gifts of sustenance more freely on someof you than on others: those more favoured are not going to throw backtheir gifts to those whom their right hands possess, so as to be equal inthat respect. Will they then deny the favours of Allah?
16/72 And Allah has made for you mates (and companions) of your ownnature, and made for you, out of them, sons and daughters andgrandchildren, and provided for you sustenance of the best: will they thenbelieve in vain things, and be ungrateful for Allah's favours?-
16/73 And worship others than Allah,- such as have no power ofproviding them, for sustenance, with anything in heavens or earth, andcannot possibly have such power?
16/74 Invent not similitudes for Allah: for Allah knoweth, and ye knownot.
16/75 Allah sets forth the Parable (of two men: one) a slave under thedominion of another; He has no power of any sort; and (the other) a man onwhom We have bestowed goodly favours from Ourselves, and he spends thereof(freely), privately and publicly: are the two equal? (By no means;) praisebe to Allah. But most of them understand not.
16/76 Allah sets forth (another) Parable of two men: one of them dumb,with no power of any sort; a wearisome burden is he to his master;whichever way be directs him, he brings no good: is such a man equal withone who commands Justice, and is on a Straight Way?
16/77 To Allah belongeth the Mystery of the heavens and the earth. Andthe Decision of the Hour (of Judgment) is as the twingkling of an eye, oreven quicker: for Allah hath power over all things.
16/78 It is He Who brought you forth from the wombs of your motherswhen ye knew nothing; and He gave you hearing and sight and intelligenceand affections: that ye may give thanks (to Allah).
16/79 Do they not look at the birds, held poised in the midst of(the air and) the sky? Nothing holds them up but (the power of) Allah. Verilyin this are signs for those who believe.
16/80 It is Allah Who made your habitations homes of rest and quietfor you; and made for you, out of the skins of animals,  (tents for)dwellings, which ye find so light (and handy) when ye travel and when yestop (in your travels); and out of their wool, and their soft fibres(between wool and hair), and their hair, rich stuff and articles ofconvenience (to serve you) for a time.
16/81 It is Allah Who made out of the things He created, some thingsto give you shade; of the hills He made some for your shelter; He made yougarments to protect you from heat, and coats of mail to protect you fromyour (mutual) violence. Thus does He complete His favours on you, that yemay bow to His Will (in Islam).
16/82 But if they turn away, thy duty is only to preach the clearMessage.
16/83 They recognise the favours of Allah; then they deny them; andmost of them are (creatures) ungrateful.
16/84 One Day We shall raise from all Peoples a Witness: then willno excuse be accepted from Unbelievers, nor will they receive any favours.
16/85 When the wrong-doers (actually) see the Penalty, then will itin no way be mitigated, nor will they then receive respite.
16/86 When those who gave partners to Allah will see their "partners",they will say: "Our Lord! these are our 'partners,' those whom we used toinvoke besides Thee." But they will throw back their word at them (andsay): "Indeed ye are liars!"
16/87 That Day shall they (openly) show (their) submission to Allah;and all their inventions shall leave them in the lurch.
16/88 Those who reject Allah and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah -for them will We add Penalty to Penalty; for that they used to spreadmischief.
16/89 One day We shall raise from all Peoples a witness againstthem, from amongst themselves: and We shall bring thee as a witness againstthese (thy people): and We have sent down to thee the Book explaining allthings, a Guide, a Mercy, and Glad Tidings to Muslims.
16/90 Allah commands justice, the doing of good, and liberality tokith and kin, and He forbids all shameful deeds, and injustice andrebellion: He instructs you, that ye may receive admonition.
16/91 Fulfil the Covenant of Allah when ye have entered into it, andbreak not your oaths after ye have confirmed them; indeed ye have made Allahyour surety; for Allah knoweth all that ye do.
16/92 And be not like a woman who breaks into untwisted strands theyarn which she has spun, after it has become strong. Nor take your oaths topractise deception between yourselves, lest one party should be morenumerous than another: for Allah will test you by this; and on the Day ofJudgment He will certainly make clear to you (the truth of) that wherein yedisagree.
16/93 If Allah so willed, He could make you all one people: But Heleaves straying whom He pleases, and He guides whom He pleases: but yeshall certainly be called to account for all your actions.
16/94 And take not your oaths, to practise deception betweenyourselves, with the result that someone's foot may slip after it wasfirmly planted, and ye may have to taste the evil (consequences) of havinghindered (men) from the Path of Allah, and a Mighty Wrath descend on you.
16/95 Nor sell the covenant of Allah for a miserable price: for withAllah is (a prize) far better for you, if ye only knew.
16/96 What is with you must vanish: what is with Allah will endure.And We will certainly bestow, on those who patiently persevere, theirreward according to the best of their actions.
16/97 Whoever works righteousness, man or woman, and has Faith,verily, to him will We give a new Life, a life that is good and pure and Wewill bestow on such their reward according to the best of their actions.
16/98 When thou dost read the Qur'an, seek Allah's protection fromSatan the rejected one.
16/99 No authority has he over those who believe and put their trustin their Lord.
16/100 His authority is over those only, who take him as patron andwho join partners with Allah.
16/101 When We substitute one revelation for another,- and Allah knowsbest what He reveals (in stages),- they say, "Thou art but a forger": butmost of them understand not.
16/102 Say, the Holy Spirit has brought the revelation from thy Lordin Truth, in order to strengthen those who believe, and as a Guide and GladTidings to Muslims.
16/103 We know indeed that they say, "It is a man that teaches him."The tongue of him they wickedly point to is notably foreign, while this isArabic, pure and clear.
16/104 Those who believe not in the Signs of Allah,- Allah will not guidethem, and theirs will be a grievous Penalty.
16/105 It is those who believe not in the Signs of Allah, that forgefalsehood: it is they who lie!
16/106 Any one who, after accepting faith in Allah, utters Unbelief,-except under compulsion, his heart remaining firm in Faith - but such asopen their breast to Unbelief, on them is Wrath from Allah, and theirs willbe a dreadful Penalty.
16/107 This because they love the life of this world better than theHereafter: and Allah will not guide those who reject Faith.
16/108 Those are they whose hearts, ears, and eyes Allah has sealed up,and they take no heed.
16/109 Without doubt, in the Hereafter they will perish.
16/110 But verily thy Lord,- to those who leave their homes aftertrials and persecutions,- and who thereafter strive and fight for the faithand patiently persevere,- Thy Lord, after all this is oft-forgiving, MostMerciful.
16/111 One Day every soul will come up struggling for itself, andevery soul will be recompensed (fully) for all its actions, and none willbe unjustly dealt with.
16/112 Allah sets forth a Parable: a city enjoying security and quiet,abundantly supplied with sustenance from every place: Yet was it ungratefulfor the favours of Allah: so Allah made it taste of hunger and terror (inextremes) (closing in on it) like a garment (from every side), because ofthe (evil) which (its people) wrought.
16/113 And there came to them a Messenger from among themselves, butthey falsely rejected him; so the Wrath seized them even in the midst oftheir iniquities.
16/114 So eat of the sustenance which Allah has provided for you,lawful and good; and be grateful for the favours of Allah, if it is He Whomye serve.
16/115 He has only forbidden you dead meat, and blood, and the fleshof swine, and any (food) over which the name of other than Allah has beeninvoked. But if one is forced by necessity, without wilful disobedience,nor transgressing due limits,- then Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
16/116 But say not - for any false thing that your tongues may putforth,- "This is lawful, and this is forbidden," so as to ascribe falsethings to Allah. For those who ascribe false things to Allah, will neverprosper.
16/117 (In such falsehood) is but a paltry profit; but they will havea most grievous Penalty.
16/118 To the Jews We prohibited such things as We have mentioned tothee before: We did them no wrong, but they were used to doing wrong tothemselves.
16/119 But verily thy Lord,- to those who do wrong in ignorance, butwho thereafter repent and make amends,- thy Lord, after all this, isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
16/120 Abraham was indeed a model, devoutly obedient to Allah, (and)true in Faith, and he joined not gods with Allah:
16/121 He showed his gratitude for the favours of Allah, who chose him,and guided him to a Straight Way.
16/122 And We gave him Good in this world, and he will be, in theHereafter, in the ranks of the Righteous.
16/123 So We have taught thee the inspired (Message), "Follow theways of Abraham the True in Faith, and he joined not gods with Allah."
16/124 The Sabbath was only made (strict) for those who disagreed (asto its observance); But Allah will judge between them on the Day of Judgment,as to their differences.
16/125 Invite (all) to the Way of thy Lord with wisdom and beautifulpreaching; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious: forthy Lord knoweth best, who have strayed from His Path, and who receiveguidance.
16/126 And if ye do catch them out, catch them out no worse than theycatch you out: But if ye show patience, that is indeed the best (course)for those who are patient.
16/127 And do thou be patient, for thy patience is but from Allah; norgrieve over them: and distress not thyself because of their plots.
16/128 For Allah is with those who restrain themselves, and those whodo good.
