27/1 These are verses of the Qur'an,-a book that makes (things)clear;
27/2 A guide: and glad tidings for the believers,-
27/3 Those who establish regular prayers and give in regularcharity, and also have (full) assurance of the hereafter.
27/4 As to those who believe not in the Hereafter, We have madetheir deeds pleasing in their eyes; and so they wander about indistraction.
27/5 Such are they for whom a grievous Penalty is (waiting); and inthe Hereafter theirs will be the greatest loss.
27/6 As to thee, the Qur'an is bestowed upon thee from the presenceof one who is wise and all-knowing.
27/7 Behold! Moses said to his family: "I perceive a fire; soonwill I bring you from there some information, or I will bring you a burningbrand to light our fuel, that ye may warn yourselves.
27/8 But when he came to the (fire), a voice was heard: "Blessedare those in the fire and those around: and glory to Allah, the Lord of theworlds.
27/9 "O Moses! verily, I am Allah, the exalted in might, thewise!....
27/10 "Now do thou throw thy rod!" But when he saw it moving (of itsown accord)as if it had been a snake, he turned back in retreat, andretraced not his steps: "O Moses!" (it was said), "Fear not: truly, in Mypresence, those called as messengers have no fear,-
27/11 "But if any have done wrong and have thereafter substitutedgood to take the place of evil, truly, I am Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
27/12 "Now put thy hand into thy bosom, and it will come forth whitewithout stain (or harm): (these are) among the nine Signs (thou wilt take)to Pharaoh and his people:  for they are a people rebellious intransgression."
27/13 But when Our Signs came to them, that should have opened theireyes, they said: "This is sorcery manifest!"
27/14 And they rejected those Signs in iniquity and arrogance,though their souls were convinced thereof: so see what was the end of thosewho acted corruptly!
27/15 We gave (in the past) knowledge to David and Solomon: And theyboth said: "Praise be to Allah, Who has favoured us above many of hisservants who believe!"
27/16 And Solomon was David's heir. He said: "O ye people! We havebeen taught the speech of birds, and on us has been bestowed (a little) ofall things: this is indeed Grace manifest (from Allah.)"
27/17 And before Solomon were marshalled his hosts,- of Jinns andmen and birds, and they were all kept in order and ranks.
27/18 At length, when they came to a (lowly) valley of ants, one ofthe ants said: "O ye ants, get into your habitations, lest Solomon and hishosts crush you (under foot) without knowing it."
27/19 So he smiled, amused at her speech; and he said: "O my Lord!so order me that I may be grateful for Thy favours, which thou hastbestowed on me and on my parents, and that I may work the righteousnessthat will please Thee: And admit me, by Thy Grace, to the ranks of Thyrighteous Servants."
27/20 And he took a muster of the Birds; and he said: "Why is it Isee not the Hoopoe? Or is he among the absentees?
27/21 "I will certainly punish him with a severe penalty, or executehim, unless he bring me a clear reason (for absence)."
27/22 But the Hoopoe tarried not far: he (came up and) said: "I havecompassed (territory) which thou hast not compassed, and I have come tothee from Saba with tidings true.
27/23 "I found (there) a woman ruling over them and provided withevery requisite; and she has a magnificent throne.
27/24 "I found her and her people worshipping the sun besides Allah:Satan has made their deeds seem pleasing in their eyes, and has kept themaway from the Path,- so they receive no guidance,-
27/25 "(Kept them away from the Path), that they should not worshipAllah, Who brings to light what is hidden in the heavens and the earth, andknows what ye hide and what ye reveal.
27/26 "Allah!- there is no god but He!- Lord of the Throne Supreme!"
27/27 (Solomon) said: "Soon shall we see whether thou hast told thetruth or lied!
27/28 "Go thou, with this letter of mine, and deliver it to them:then draw back from them, and (wait to) see what answer they return"...
27/29 (The queen) said: "Ye chiefs! here is delivered to me - aletter worthy of respect.
27/30 "It is from Solomon, and is (as follows): 'In the name of Allah,Most Gracious, Most Merciful:
27/31 "'Be ye not arrogant against me, but come to me in submission(to the true Religion).'"
27/32 She said: "Ye chiefs! advise me in (this) my affair: no affairhave I decided except in your presence."
27/33 They said: "We are endued with strength, and given to vehementwar: but the command is with thee; so consider what thou wilt command."
27/34 She said: "Kings, when they enter a country, despoil it, andmake the noblest of its people its meanest thus do they behave.
27/35 "But I am going to send him a present, and (wait) to see withwhat (answer) return  (my) ambassadors."
27/36 Now when (the embassy) came to Solomon, he said: "Will ye giveme abundance in wealth? But that which Allah has given me is better than thatwhich He has given you! Nay it is ye who rejoice in your gift!
27/37 "Go back to them, and be sure we shall come to them with suchhosts as they will never be able to meet: We shall expel them from there indisgrace, and they will feel humbled (indeed)."
27/38 He said (to his own men): "Ye chiefs! which of you can bringme her throne before they come to me in submission?"
27/39 Said an 'Ifrit, of the Jinns: "I will bring it to thee beforethou rise from thy council: indeed I have full strength for the purpose,and may be trusted."
27/40 Said one who had knowledge of the Book: "I will bring it tothee within the twinkling of an eye!" Then when (Solomon) saw it placedfirmly before him, he said: "This is by the Grace of my Lord!- to test mewhether I am grateful or ungrateful! and if any is grateful, truly hisgratitude is (a gain) for his own soul; but if any is ungrateful, truly myLord is Free of all Needs, Supreme in Honour !"
27/41 He said: "Transform her throne out of all recognition by her:let us see whether she is guided (to the truth) or is one of those whoreceive no guidance."
27/42 So when she arrived, she was asked, "Is this thy throne?" Shesaid, "It was just like this; and knowledge was bestowed on us in advanceof this, and we have submitted to Allah (in Islam)."
27/43 And he diverted her from the worship of others besides Allah:for she was (sprung) of a people that had no faith.
27/44 She was asked to enter the lofty Palace: but when she saw it,she thought it was a lake of water, and she (tucked up her skirts),uncovering her legs. He said: "This is but a palace paved smooth with slabsof glass."  She said: "O my Lord! I have indeed wronged my soul: I do (now)submit (in Islam), with Solomon, to the Lord of the Worlds."
27/45 We sent (aforetime), to the Thamud, their brother Salih,saying, "Serve Allah": But behold, they became two factions quarrelling witheach other.
27/46 He said: "O my people! why ask ye to hasten on the evil inpreference to the good? If only ye ask Allah for forgiveness, ye may hope toreceive mercy.
27/47 They said: "Ill omen do we augur from thee and those that arewith thee". He said: "Your ill omen is with Allah; yea, ye are a people undertrial."
27/48 There were in the city nine men of a family, who made mischiefin the land, and would not reform.
27/49 They said: "Swear a mutual oath by Allah that we shall make asecret night attack on him and his people, and that we shall then say tohis heir (when he seeks vengeance): 'We were not present at the slaughterof his people, and we are positively telling the truth.'"
27/50 They plotted and planned, but We too planned, even while theyperceived it not.
27/51 Then see what was the end of their plot!- this, that Wedestroyed them and their people, all (of them).
27/52 Now such were their houses, - in utter ruin, - because theypractised wrong-doing. Verily in this is a Sign for people of knowledge.
27/53 And We saved those who believed and practised righteousness.
27/54 (We also sent) Lut (as a messenger): behold, He said to hispeople, "Do ye do what is shameful though ye see (its iniquity)?
27/55 Would ye really approach men in your lusts rather than women?Nay, ye are a people (grossly) ignorant!
27/56 But his people gave no other answer but this: they said,"Drive out the followers of Lut from your city: these are indeed men whowant to be clean and pure!"
27/57 But We saved him and his family, except his wife; her Wedestined to be of those who lagged behind.
27/58 And We rained down on them a shower (of brimstone): and evilwas the shower on those who were admonished (but heeded not)!
27/59 Say: Praise be to Allah, and Peace on his servants whom He haschosen (for his Message). (Who) is better?- Allah or the false gods theyassociate (with Him)?
27/60 Or, Who has created the heavens and the earth, and Who sendsyou down rain from the sky? Yea, with it We cause to grow well-plantedorchards full of beauty of delight: it is not in your power to cause thegrowth of the trees in them. (Can there be another) god besides Allah? Nay,they are a people who swerve from justice.
27/61 Or, Who has made the earth firm to live in; made rivers in itsmidst; set thereon mountains immovable; and made a separating bar betweenthe two bodies of flowing water? (can there be another) god besides Allah?Nay, most of them know not.
27/62 Or, Who listens to the (soul) distressed when it calls on Him,and Who relieves its suffering, and makes you (mankind) inheritors of theearth? (Can there be another) god besides Allah? Little it is that ye heed!
27/63 Or, Who guides you through the depths of darkness on land andsea, and Who sends the winds as heralds of glad tidings, going before HisMercy? (Can there be another) god besides Allah?- High is Allah above what theyassociate with Him!
27/64 Or, Who originates creation, then repeats it, and who givesyou sustenance from heaven and earth? (Can there be another) god besidesAllah? Say, "Bring forth your argument, if ye are telling the truth!"
27/65 Say: None in the heavens or on earth, except Allah, knows whatis hidden: nor can they perceive when they shall be raised up (forJudgment).
27/66 Still less can their knowledge comprehend the Hereafter: Nay,they are in doubt and uncertainty thereanent; nay, they are blindthereunto!
27/67 The Unbelievers say: "What! when we become dust,- we and ourfathers,- shall we really be raised (from the dead)?
27/68 "It is true we were promised this,- we and our fathers before(us): these are nothing but tales of the ancients."
27/69 Say: "Go ye through the earth and see what has been the end ofthose guilty (of sin)."
27/70 But grieve not over them, nor distress thyself because oftheir plots.
27/71 They also say: "When will this promise (come to pass)? (Say)if ye are truthful."
27/72 Say: "It may be that some of the events which ye wish tohasten on may be (close) in your pursuit!"
27/73 But verily thy Lord is full of grace to mankind: Yet most ofthem are ungrateful.
27/74 And verily thy Lord knoweth all that their hearts do hide. Aswell as all that they reveal.
27/75 Nor is there aught of the unseen, in heaven or earth, but is(recorded) in a clear record.
27/76 Verily this Qur'an doth explain to the Children of Israel mostof the matters in which they disagree.
27/77 And it certainly is a Guide and a Mercy to those who believe.
27/78 Verily thy Lord will decide between them by His Decree: and Heis Exalted in Might, All-Knowing.
27/79 So put thy trust in Allah: for thou art on (the path of)manifest Truth.
27/80 Truly thou canst not cause the dead to listen, nor canst thoucause the deaf to hear the call, (especially) when they turn back inretreat.
27/81 Nor canst thou be a guide to the blind, (to prevent them) fromstraying: only those wilt thou get to listen who believe in Our Signs, andthey will bow in Islam.
27/82 And when the Word is fulfilled against them (the unjust), weshall produce from the earth a beast to (face) them: He will speak to them,for that mankind did not believe with assurance in Our Signs.
27/83 One day We shall gather together from every people a troop ofthose who reject our Signs, and they shall be kept in ranks,-
27/84 Until, when they come (before the Judgment-seat), (Allah) willsay: "Did ye reject My Signs, though ye comprehended them not in knowledge,or what was it ye did?"
27/85 And the Word will be fulfilled against them, because of theirwrong-doing, and they will be unable to speak (in plea).
27/86 See they not that We have made the Night for them to rest inand the Day to give them light?  Verily in this are Signs for any peoplethat believe!
27/87 And the Day that the Trumpet will be sounded - then will besmitten with terror those who are in the heavens, and those who are onearth, except such as Allah will please (to exempt): and all shall come toHis (Presence) as beings conscious of their lowliness.
27/88 Thou seest the mountains and thinkest them firmly fixed: butthey shall pass away as the clouds pass away: (such is) the artistry ofAllah, who disposes of all things in perfect order: for he is well acquaintedwith all that ye do.
27/89 If any do good, good will (accrue) to them therefrom; and theywill be secure from terror that Day.
27/90 And if any do evil, their faces will be thrown headlong intothe Fire: "Do ye receive a reward other than that which ye have earned byyour deeds?"
27/91 For me, I have been commanded to serve the Lord of this city,Him Who has sanctified it and to Whom (belong) all things: and I amcommanded to be of those who bow in Islam to Allah's Will,-
27/92 And to rehearse the Qur'an: and if any accept guidance, theydo it for the good of their own souls, and if any stray, say: "I am only aWarner".
27/93 And say: "Praise be to Allah, Who will soon show you His Signs,so that ye shall know them"; and thy Lord is not unmindful of all that yedo.
