24/1 A sura which We have sent down and which We have ordained init have We sent down Clear Signs, in order that ye may receive admonition.
24/2 The woman and the man guilty of adultery or fornication,- flogeach of them with a hundred stripes: Let not compassion move you in theircase, in a matter prescribed by Allah, if ye believe in Allah and the Last Day:and let a party of the Believers witness their punishment.
24/3 Let no man guilty of adultery or fornication marry and but awoman similarly guilty, or an Unbeliever: nor let any but such a man or anUnbeliever marry such a woman: to the Believers such a thing is forbidden.
24/4 And those who launch a charge against chaste women, andproduce not four witnesses (to support their allegations),- flog them witheighty stripes; and reject their evidence ever after: for such men arewicked transgressors;-
24/5 Unless they repent thereafter and mend (their conduct); forAllah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
24/6 And for those who launch a charge against their spouses, andhave (in support) no evidence but their own,- their solitary evidence (canbe received) if they bear witness four times (with an oath) by Allah thatthey are solemnly telling the truth;
24/7 And the fifth (oath) (should be) that they solemnly invoke thecurse of Allah on themselves if they tell a lie.
24/8 But it would avert the punishment from the wife, if she bearswitness four times (with an oath) By Allah, that (her husband) is telling alie;
24/9 And the fifth (oath) should be that she solemnly invokes thewrath of Allah on herself if (her accuser) is telling the truth.
24/10 If it were not for Allah's grace and mercy on you, and that Allahis Oft-Returning, full of Wisdom,- (Ye would be ruined indeed).
24/11 Those who brought forward the lie are a body among yourselves:think it not to be an evil to you; On the contrary it is good for you: toevery man among them (will come the punishment) of the sin that he earned,and to him who took on himself the lead among them, will be a penaltygrievous.
24/12 Why did not the believers - men and women - when ye heard ofthe affair,- put the best construction on it in their own minds and say,"This (charge) is an obvious lie"?
24/13 Why did they not bring four witnesses to prove it? When theyhave not brought the witnesses, such men, in the sight of Allah, (standforth) themselves as liars!
24/14 Were it not for the grace and mercy of Allah on you, in thisworld and the Hereafter, a grievous penalty would have seized you in thatye rushed glibly into this affair.
24/15 Behold, ye received it on your tongues, and said out of yourmouths things of which ye had no knowledge; and ye thought it to be a lightmatter, while it was most serious in the sight of Allah.
24/16 And why did ye not, when ye heard it, say? - "It is not rightof us to speak of this: Glory to Allah! this is a most serious slander!"
24/17 Allah doth admonish you, that ye may never repeat such(conduct), if ye are (true) Believers.
24/18 And Allah makes the Signs plain to you: for Allah is full ofknowledge and wisdom.
24/19 Those who love (to see) scandal published broadcast among theBelievers, will have a grievous Penalty in this life and in the Hereafter:Allah knows, and ye know not.
24/20 Were it not for the grace and mercy of Allah on you, and thatAllah is full of kindness and mercy, (ye would be ruined indeed).
24/21 O ye who believe! follow not Satan's footsteps: if any willfollow the footsteps of Satan, he will (but) command what is shameful andwrong: and were it not for the grace and mercy of Allah on you, not one ofyou would ever have been pure: but Allah doth purify whom He pleases: and Allahis One Who hears and knows (all things).
24/22 Let not those among you who are endued with grace andamplitude of means resolve by oath against helping their kinsmen, those inwant, and those who have left their homes in Allah's cause: let them forgiveand overlook, do you not wish that Allah should forgive you? For Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
24/23 Those who slander chaste women, indiscreet but believing, arecursed in this life and in the Hereafter: for them is a grievous Penalty,-
24/24 On the Day when their tongues, their hands, and their feetwill bear witness against them as to their actions.
24/25 On that Day Allah will pay them back (all) their just dues, andthey will realise that Allah is the (very) Truth, that makes all thingsmanifest.
24/26 Women impure are for men impure, and men impure for womenimpure and women of purity are for men of purity, and men of purity are forwomen of purity: these are not affected by what people say: for them thereis forgiveness, and a provision honourable.
24/27 O ye who believe! enter not houses other than your own, untilye have asked permission and saluted those in them: that is best for you,in order that ye may heed (what is seemly).
24/28 If ye find no one in the house, enter not until permission isgiven to you: if ye are asked to go back, go back: that makes for greaterpurity for yourselves: and Allah knows well all that ye do.
24/29 It is no fault on your part to enter houses not used forliving in, which serve some (other) use for you: And Allah has knowledge ofwhat ye reveal and what ye conceal.
24/30 Say to the believing men that they should lower their gaze andguard their modesty: that will make for greater purity for them: And Allah iswell acquainted with all that they do.
24/31 And say to the believing women that they should lower theirgaze and guard their modesty; that they should not display their beauty andornaments except what (must ordinarily) appear thereof; that they shoulddraw their veils over their bosoms and not display their beauty except totheir husbands, their fathers, their husband's fathers, their sons, theirhusbands' sons, their brothers or their brothers' sons, or their sisters'sons, or their women, or the slaves whom their right hands possess, or maleservants free of physical needs, or small children who have no sense of theshame of sex; and that they should not strike their feet in order to drawattention to their hidden ornaments. And O ye Believers! turn ye alltogether towards Allah, that ye may attain Bliss.
24/32 Marry those among you who are single, or the virtuous onesamong yourselves, male or female: if they are in poverty, Allah will givethem means out of His grace: for Allah encompasseth all, and he knoweth allthings.
24/33 Let those who find not the wherewithal for marriage keepthemselves chaste, until Allah gives them means out of His grace. And if anyof your slaves ask for a deed in writing (to enable them to earn theirfreedom for a certain sum), give them such a deed if ye know any good inthem: yea, give them something yourselves  out of the means which Allah hasgiven to you. But force not your maids to prostitution when they desirechastity, in order that ye may make a gain in the goods of this life. Butif anyone compels them, yet, after such compulsion, is Allah, Oft-Forgiving,Most Merciful (to them),
24/34 We have already sent down to you verses making things clear,an illustration from (the story of) people who passed away before you, andan admonition for those who fear (Allah).
24/35 Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. The Parable ofHis Light is as if there were a Niche and within it a Lamp: the Lampenclosed in Glass: the glass as it were a brilliant star:  Lit from ablessed Tree, an Olive, neither of the east nor of the west, whose oil iswell-nigh luminous, though fire scarce touched it: Light upon Light! Allahdoth guide whom He will to His Light: Allah doth set forth Parables for men:and Allah doth know all things.
24/36 (Lit is such a Light) in houses, which Allah hath permitted tobe raised to honour; for the celebration, in them, of His name: In them isHe glorified in the mornings and in the evenings, (again and again),-
24/37 By men whom neither traffic nor merchandise can divert fromthe Remembrance of Allah, nor from regular Prayer, nor from the practice ofregular Charity: Their (only) fear is for the Day when hearts and eyes willbe transformed (in a world wholly new),-
24/38 That Allah may reward them according to the best of their deeds,and add even more for them out of His Grace: for Allah doth provide for thosewhom He will, without measure.
24/39 But the Unbelievers,- their deeds are like a mirage in sandydeserts, which the man parched with thirst mistakes for water; until whenhe comes up to it, he finds it to be nothing: But he finds Allah (ever) withhim, and Allah will pay him his account: and Allah is swift in taking account.
24/40 Or (the Unbelievers' state) is like the depths of darkness ina vast deep ocean, overwhelmed with billow topped by billow, topped by(dark) clouds: depths of darkness, one above another: if a man stretchesout his hands, he can hardly see it! for any to whom Allah giveth not light,there is no light!
24/41 Seest thou not that it is Allah Whose praises all beings in theheavens and on earth do celebrate, and the birds (of the air) with wingsoutspread? Each one knows its own (mode of) prayer and praise. And Allahknows well all that they do.
24/42 Yea, to Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth;and to Allah is the final goal (of all).
24/43 Seest thou not that Allah makes the clouds move gently, thenjoins them together, then makes them into a heap? - then wilt thou see rainissue forth from their midst. And He sends down from the sky mountainmasses (of clouds) wherein is hail: He strikes therewith whom He pleasesand He turns it away from whom He pleases, the vivid flash of His lightningwell-nigh blinds the sight.
24/44 It is Allah Who alternates the Night and the Day: verily inthese things is an instructive example for those who have vision!
24/45 And Allah has created every animal from water: of them there aresome that creep on their bellies; some that walk on two legs; and some thatwalk on four. Allah creates what He wills for verily Allah has power over allthings.
24/46 We have indeed sent down signs that make things manifest: andAllah guides whom He wills to a way that is straight.
24/47 They say, "We believe in Allah and in the messenger, and we obey":but even after that, some of them turn away: they are not (really)Believers.
24/48 When they are summoned to Allah and His messenger, in order thatHe may judge between them, behold some of them decline (to come).
24/49 But if the right is on their side, they come to him with allsubmission.
24/50 Is it that there is a disease in their hearts? or do theydoubt, or are they in fear, that Allah and His Messenger will deal unjustlywith them? Nay, it is they themselves who do wrong.
24/51 The answer of the Believers, when summoned to Allah and HisMessenger, in order that He may judge between them, is no other than this:they say, "We hear and we obey": it is such as these that will attainfelicity.
24/52 It is such as obey Allah and His Messenger, and fear Allah and doright, that will win (in the end),
24/53 They swear their strongest oaths by Allah that, if only thouwouldst command them, they would leave (their homes). Say: "Swear ye not;Obedience is (more) reasonable;  verily, Allah is well acquainted with allthat ye do."
24/54 Say: "Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger: but if ye turn away, heis only responsible for the duty placed on him and ye for that placed onyou. If ye obey him, ye shall be on right guidance. The Messenger's duty isonly to preach the clear (Message).
24/55 Allah has promised, to those among you who believe and workrighteous deeds, that He will, of a surety, grant them in the land,inheritance (of power), as He granted it to those before them; that He willestablish in authority their religion - the one which He has chosen forthem; and that He will change (their state), after the fear in which they(lived), to one of security and peace: 'They will worship Me (alone) andnot associate aught with Me. 'If any do reject Faith after this, they arerebellious and wicked.
24/56 So establish regular Prayer and give regular Charity; and obeythe Messenger; that ye may receive mercy.
24/57 Never think thou that the Unbelievers are going to frustrate(Allah's Plan) on earth: their abode is the Fire,- and it is indeed an evilrefuge!
24/58 O ye who believe! let those whom your right hands possess, andthe (children) among you who have not come of age ask your permission(before they come to your presence), on three occasions: before morningprayer; the while ye doff your clothes for the noonday heat; and after thelate-night prayer: these are your three times of undress: outside thosetimes it is not wrong for you or for them to move about attending to eachother: Thus does Allah make clear the Signs to you: for Allah is full ofknowledge and wisdom.
24/59 But when the children among you come of age, let them (also)ask for permission, as do those senior to them (in age): Thus does Allah makeclear His Signs to you: for Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom.
24/60 Such elderly women as are past the prospect of marriage,-there is no blame on them if they lay aside their (outer) garments,provided they make not a wanton display of their beauty: but it is best forthem to be modest: and Allah is One Who sees and knows all things.
24/61 It is no fault in the blind nor in one born lame, nor in oneafflicted with illness, nor in yourselves, that ye should eat in your ownhouses, or those of your fathers, or your mothers, or your brothers, oryour sisters, or your father's brothers or your father's sisters, or yourmohter's brothers, or your mother's sisters, or in houses of which the keysare in your possession, or in the house of a sincere friend of yours: thereis no blame on you, whether ye eat in company or separately. But if yeenter houses, salute each other - a greeting of blessing and purity as fromAllah. Thus does Allah make clear the signs to you: that ye may understand.
24/62 Only those are believers, who believe in Allah and His Messenger:when they are with him on a matter requiring collective action, they do notdepart until they have asked for his leave; those who ask for thy leave arethose who believe in Allah and His Messenger; so when they ask for thy leave,for some business of theirs, give leave to those of them whom thou wilt,and ask Allah for their forgiveness: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, MostMerciful.
24/63 Deem not the summons of the Messenger among yourselves like thesummons of one of you to another: Allah doth know those of you who slip awayunder shelter of some excuse: then let those beware who withstand theMessenger's order, lest some trial befall them, or a grievous penalty beinflicted on them.
24/64 Be quite sure that to Allah doth belong whatever is in theheavens and on earth. Well doth He know what ye are intent upon: and oneday they will be brought back to Him, and He will tell them the truth ofwhat they did: for Allah doth know all things.
