13/1 A.L.M.R. These are the signs (or verses) of the Book: thatwhich hath been revealed unto thee from thy Lord is the Truth; but most menbelieve not.
13/2 Allah is He Who raised the heavens without any pillars that yecan see; is firmly established on the throne (of authority); He hassubjected the sun and the moon (to his Law)! Each one runs (its course) fora term appointed. He doth regulate all affairs, explaining the signs indetail, that ye may believe with certainty in the meeting with your Lord.
13/3 And it is He who spread out the earth, and set thereonmountains standing firm and (flowing) rivers: and fruit of every kind Hemade in pairs, two and two: He draweth the night as a veil o'er the Day.Behold, verily in these things there are signs for those who consider!
13/4 And in the earth are tracts (diverse though) neighbouring, andgardens of vines and fields sown with corn, and palm trees - growing out ofsingle roots or otherwise: watered with the same water, yet some of them Wemake more excellent than others to eat. Behold, verily in these thingsthere are signs for those who understand!
13/5 If thou dost marvel (at their want of faith), strange is theirsaying: "When we are (actually) dust, shall we indeed then be in a creationrenewed?" They are those who deny their Lord! They are those round whosenecks will be yokes (of servitude): they will be Companions of the Fire, todwell therein (for aye)!
13/6 They ask thee to hasten on the evil in preference to the good: Yet have come to pass, before them, (many) exemplary punishments! Butverily thy Lord is full of forgiveness for mankind for their wrong-doing,and verily thy Lord is (also) strict in punishment.
13/7 And the Unbelievers say: "Why is not a sign sent down to himfrom his Lord?" But thou art truly a warner, and to every people a guide.
13/8 Allah doth know what every female (womb) doth bear, by how muchthe wombs fall short (of their time or number) or do exceed. Every singlething is before His sight, in (due) proportion.
13/9 He knoweth the unseen and that which is open: He is the Great,the Most High.
13/10 It is the same (to Him) whether any of you conceal his speechor declare it openly; whether he lie hid by night or walk forth freely byday.
13/11 For each (such person) there are (angels) in succession,before and behind him: They guard him by command of Allah.  Allahdoes not change a people's lot unless they change what is in theirhearts.  But when (once) Allah willeth a people's punishment, therecan be no turning it back, nor will they find, besides Him, any toprotect.
13/12 It is He Who doth show you the lightning, by way both of fearand of hope: It is He Who doth raise up the clouds, heavy with(fertilising) rain!
13/13 Nay, thunder repeateth His praises, and so do the angels, withawe: He flingeth the loud-voiced thunder-bolts, and therewith He strikethwhomsoever He will..yet these (are the men) who (dare to) dispute aboutAllah, with the strength of His power (supreme)!
13/14 For Him (alone) is prayer in Truth: any others that they callupon besides Him hear them no more than if they were to stretch forth theirhands for water to reach their mouths but it reaches them not: for theprayer of those without Faith is nothing but (futile) wandering (in themind).
13/15 Whatever beings there are in the heavens and the earth doprostrate themselves to Allah (Acknowledging subjection),- with good-will orin spite of themselves: so do their shadows in the morning and evenings.
13/16 Say: "Who is the Lord and Sustainer of the heavens and theearth?" Say: "(It is) Allah." Say: "Do ye then take (for worship) protectorsother than Him, such as have no power either for good or for harm tothemselves?" Say: "Are the blind equal with those who see? Or the depths ofdarkness equal with light?" Or do they assign to Allah partners who havecreated (anything) as He has created, so that the creation seemed to themsimilar? Say: "Allah is the Creator of all things: He is the One, the Supremeand Irresistible."
13/17 He sends down water from the skies, and the channels flow,each according to its measure: But the torrent bears away to foam thatmounts up to the surface. Even so, from that (ore) which they heat in thefire, to make ornaments or utensils therewith, there is a scum likewise.Thus doth Allah (by parables) show forth Truth and Vanity. For the scumdisappears like forth cast out; while that which is for the good of mankindremains on the earth. Thus doth Allah set forth parables.
13/18 For those who respond to their Lord, are (all) good things.But those who respond not to Him,- Even if they had all that is in theheavens and on earth, and as much more, (in vain) would they offer it forransom. For them will the reckoning be terrible: their abode will be Hell,-what a bed of misery!
13/19 Is then one who doth know that that which hath been revealedunto thee from thy Lord is the Truth, like one who is blind? It is thosewho are endued with understanding that receive admonition;-
13/20 Those who fulfil the covenant of Allah and fail not in theirplighted word;
13/21 Those who join together those things which Allah hath commandedto be joined, hold their Lord in awe, and fear the terrible reckoning;
13/22 Those who patiently persevere, seeking the countenance oftheir Lord; Establish regular prayers; spend, out of (the gifts) We havebestowed for their sustenance, secretly and openly; and turn off Evil withgood: for such there is the final attainment of the (eternal) home,-
13/23 Gardens of perpetual bliss: they shall enter there, as well asthe righteous among their fathers, their spouses, and their offspring: andangels shall enter unto them from every gate (with the salutation):
13/24 "Peace unto you for that ye persevered in patience! Now howexcellent is the final home!"
13/25 But those who break the Covenant of Allah, after having plightedtheir word thereto, and cut asunder those things which Allah has commanded tobe joined, and work mischief in the land;- on them is the curse; for themis the terrible home!
13/26 Allah doth enlarge, or grant by (strict) measure, the sustenance(which He giveth) to whomso He pleaseth. (The wordly) rejoice in the lifeof this world: But the life of this world is but little comfort in theHereafter.
13/27 The Unbelievers say: "Why is not a sign sent down to him fromhis Lord?" Say: "Truly Allah leaveth, to stray, whom He will; But He guidethto Himself those who turn to Him in penitence,-
13/28 "Those who believe, and whose hearts find satisfaction in theremembrance of Allah: for without doubt in the remembrance of Allah do heartsfind satisfaction.
13/29 "For those who believe and work righteousness, is (every)blessedness, and a beautiful place of (final) return."
13/30 Thus have we sent thee amongst a People before whom (longsince) have (other) Peoples (gone and) passed away; in order that thoumightest rehearse unto them what We send down unto thee by inspiration; yetdo they reject (Him), the Most Gracious! Say: "He is my Lord! There is nogod but He! On Him is my trust, and to Him do I turn!"
13/31 If there were a Qur'an with which mountains were moved, or theearth were cloven asunder, or the dead were made to speak, (this would bethe one!) But, truly, the command is with Allah in all things! Do not theBelievers know, that, had Allah (so) willed, He could have guided all mankind(to the right)? But the Unbelievers,- never will disaster cease to seizethem for their (ill) deeds, or to settle close to their homes, until thepromise of Allah come to pass, for, verily, Allah will not fail in Hispromise.
13/32 Mocked were (many) messengers before thee: but I granted respiteto the unbelievers, and finally I punished them: Then how (terrible) was myrequital!
13/33 Is then He who standeth over every soul (and knoweth) all thatit doth, (like any others)? And yet they ascribe partners to Allah. Say: "Butname them! is it that ye will inform Him of something he knoweth not onearth, or is it (just) a show of words?" Nay! to those who believe not,their pretence seems pleasing, but they are kept back (thereby) from thepath. And those whom Allah leaves to stray, no one can guide.
13/34 For them is a penalty in the life of this world, but harder,truly, is the penalty of the Hereafter: and defender have they none againstAllah.
13/35 The parable of the Garden which the righteous are promised!-beneath it flow rivers: perpetual is the enjoyment thereof and the shadetherein: such is the end of the Righteous; and the end of Unbelievers inthe Fire.
13/36 Those to whom We have given the Book rejoice at what hath beenrevealed unto thee: but there are among the clans those who reject a partthereof. Say: "I am commanded to worship Allah, and not to join partners withHim. Unto Him do I call, and unto Him is my return."
13/37 Thus have We revealed it to be a judgment of authority inArabic. Wert thou to follow their (vain) desires after the knowledge whichhath reached thee, then wouldst thou find neither protector nor defenderagainst Allah.
13/38 We did send messengers before thee, and appointed for them wivesand children: and it was never the part of a messenger to bring a signexcept as Allah permitted (or commanded). For each period is a Book(revealed).
13/39 Allah doth blot out or confirm what He pleaseth: with Him is theMother of the Book.
13/40 Whether We shall show thee (within thy life-time) part of whatwe promised them or take to ourselves thy soul (before it is allaccomplished),- thy duty is to make (the Message) reach them: it is ourpart to call them to account.
13/41 See they not that We gradually reduce the land (in theircontrol) from its outlying borders? (Where) Allah commands, there is none toput back His Command: and He is swift in calling to account.
13/42 Those before them did (also) devise plots; but in all thingsthe master-planning is Allah's He knoweth the doings of every soul: and soonwill the Unbelievers know who gets home in the end.
13/43 The Unbelievers say: "No messenger art thou." Say: "Enough for awitness between me and you is Allah, and such as have knowledge of theBook."
