61/1 Whatever is in the heavens and on earth, let it declare thePraises and Glory of Allah: for He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
61/2 O ye who believe! Why say ye that which ye do not?
61/3 Grievously odious is it in the sight of Allah that ye say thatwhich ye do not.
61/4 Truly Allah loves those who fight in His Cause in battle array,as if they were a solid cemented structure.
61/5 And remember, Moses said to his people: "O my people! why doye vex and insult me, though ye know that I am the messenger of Allah (sent) toyou?"  Then when they went wrong, Allah let their hearts go wrong. For Allahguides not those who are rebellious transgressors.
61/6 And remember, Jesus, the son of Mary, said: "O Children ofIsrael! I am the messenger of Allah (sent) to you, confirming the Law (whichcame) before me, and giving Glad Tidings of a Messenger to come after me,whose name shall be Ahmad." But when he came to them with Clear Signs, theysaid, "this is evident sorcery!"
61/7 Who doth greater wrong than one who invents falsehood againstAllah, even as he is being invited to Islam? And Allah guides not those who dowrong.
61/8 Their intention is to extinguish Allah's Light (by blowing) withtheir mouths: But Allah will complete (the revelation of) His Light, eventhough the Unbelievers may detest (it).
61/9 It is He Who has sent His Messenger with Guidance and theReligion of Truth, that he may proclaim it over all religion, even thoughthe Pagans may detest (it).
61/10 O ye who believe! Shall I lead you to a bargain that will saveyou from a grievous Penalty?-
61/11 That ye believe in Allah and His Messenger, and that ye strive(your utmost) in the Cause of Allah, with your property and your persons:That will be best for you, if ye but knew!
61/12 He will forgive you your sins, and admit you to Gardensbeneath which Rivers flow, and to beautiful mansions in Gardens ofEternity: that is indeed the Supreme Achievement.
61/13 And another (favour will He bestow,) which ye do love,- helpfrom Allah and a speedy victory. So give the Glad Tidings to the Believers.
61/14 O ye who believe! Be ye helpers of Allah: As said Jesus the sonof Mary to the Disciples, "Who will be my helpers to (the work of) Allah?"Said the disciples, "We are Allah's helpers!" then a portion of the Childrenof Israel believed, and a portion disbelieved: But We gave power to thosewho believed, against their enemies, and they became the ones thatprevailed.
