34/1 Praise be to Allah, to Whom belong all things in the heavens andon earth: to Him be Praise in the Hereafter: and He is Full of Wisdom,acquainted with all things.
34/2 He knows all that goes into the earth, and all that comes outthereof; all that comes down from the sky and all that ascends thereto andHe is the Most Merciful, the Oft-Forgiving.
34/3 The Unbelievers say, "Never to us will come the Hour": Say,"Nay! but most surely, by my Lord, it will come upon you;- by Him Who knowsthe unseen,- from Whom is not hidden the least little atom in the heavensor on earth: Nor is there anything less than that, or greater, but is inthe Record Perspicuous:
34/4 That He may reward those who believe and work deeds ofrighteousness: for such is Forgiveness and a Sustenance Most Generous."
34/5 But those who strive against Our Signs, to frustrate them,-for such will be a Penalty,- a Punishment most humiliating.
34/6 And those to whom knowledge has come see that the (Revelation)sent down to thee from thy Lord - that is the Truth, and that it guides tothe Path of the Exalted (in might), Worthy of all praise.
34/7 The Unbelievers say (in ridicule): "Shall we point out to youa man that will tell you, when ye are all scattered to pieces indisintegration, that ye shall (then be raised) in a New Creation?
34/8 "Has he invented a falsehood against Allah, or has a spirit(seized) him?"- Nay, it is those who believe not in the Hereafter, that arein (real) Penalty, and in farthest error.
34/9 See they not what is before them and behind them, of the skyand the earth? If We wished, We could cause the earth to swallow them up,or cause a piece of the sky to fall upon them. Verily in this is a Sign forevery devotee that turns to Allah (in repentance).
34/10 We bestowed Grace aforetime on David from ourselves: "O yeMountains! Sing ye back the Praises of Allah with him! and ye birds (also)!And We made the iron soft for him;-
34/11 (Commanding), "Make thou coast of mail, balancing well therings of chain armour, and work ye righteousness; for be sure I see(clearly) all that ye do."
34/12 And to Solomon (We made) the Wind (obedient): Its earlymorning (stride) was a month's (journey), and its evening (stride) was amonth's (journey); and We made a Font of molten brass to flow for him; andthere were Jinns that worked in front of him, by the leave of his Lord, andif any of them turned aside from our command, We made him taste of thePenalty of the Blazing Fire.
34/13 They worked for him as he desired, (making) arches, images,basons as large as reservoirs, and (cooking) cauldrons fixed (in theirplaces): "Work ye, sons of David, with thanks! but few of My servants aregrateful!"
34/14 Then, when We decreed (Solomon's) death, nothing showed themhis death except a little worm of the earth, which kept (slowly) gnawingaway at his staff: so when he fell down, the Jinns saw plainly that if theyhad known the unseen, they would not have tarried in the humiliatingPenalty (of their Task).
34/15 There was, for Saba, aforetime, a Sign in their home-land -two Gardens to the right and to the left. "Eat of the Sustenance (provided)by your Lord, and be grateful to Him: a territory fair and happy, and aLord Oft-Forgiving!
34/16 But they turned away (from Allah), and We sent against them theFlood (released) from the dams, and We converted their two garden (rows)into "gardens" producing bitter fruit, and tamarisks, and some few(stunted) Lote-trees.
34/17 That was the Requital We gave them because they ungratefullyrejected Faith: and never do We give (such) requital except to such as areungrateful rejecters.
34/18 Between them and the Cities on which We had poured ourblessings, We had placed Cities in prominent positions, and between them Wehad appointed stages of journey in due proportion: "Travel therein, secure,by night and by day."
34/19 But they said: "Our Lord! Place longer distances between ourjourney-stages": but they wronged themselves (therein). At length We madethem as a tale (that is told), and We dispersed them all in scatteredfragments. Verily in this are Signs for every (soul that is) patientlyconstant and grateful.
34/20 And on them did Satan prove true his idea, and they followedhim, all but a party that believed.
34/21 But he had no authority over them,- except that We might testthe man who believes in the Hereafter from him who is in doubt concerningit: and thy Lord doth watch over all things.
34/22 Say: "Call upon other (gods) whom ye fancy, besides Allah: Theyhave no power,- not the weight of an atom,- in the heavens or on earth: No(sort of) share have they therein, nor is any of them a helper to Allah.
34/23 "No intercession can avail in His Presence, except for thosefor whom He has granted permission. So far (is this the case) that, whenterror is removed from their hearts (at the Day of Judgment, then) willthey say, 'what is it that your Lord commanded?' they will say, 'That whichis true and just; and He is the Most High Most Great'."
34/24 Say: "Who gives you sustenance, from the heavens and theearth?" Say: "It is Allah; and certain it is that either we or ye are onright guidance or in manifest error!"
34/25 Say: "Ye shall not be questioned as to our sins, nor shall webe questioned as to what ye do."
34/26 Say: "Our Lord will gather us together and will in the enddecide the matter between us (and you) in truth and justice: and He is theone to decide, the One Who knows all."
34/27 Say: "Show me those whom ye have joined with Him as partners:by no means (can ye). Nay, He is Allah, the Exalted in Power, the Wise."
34/28 We have not sent thee but as a universal (Messenger) to men,giving them glad tidings, and warning them (against sin), but most menunderstand not.
34/29 They say: "When will this promise (come to pass) if ye aretelling the truth?"
34/30 Say: "The appointment to you is for a Day, which ye cannot putback for an hour nor put forward."
34/31 The Unbelievers say: "We shall neither believe in thisscripture nor in (any) that (came) before it." Couldst thou but see whenthe wrong-doers will be made to stand before their Lord, throwing back theword (of blame) on one another! Those who had been despised will say to thearrogant ones: "Had it not been for you, we should certainly have beenbelievers!"
34/32 The arrogant ones will say to those who had been despised:"Was it we who kept you back from Guidance after it reached you? Nay,rather, it was ye who transgressed.
34/33 Those who had been despised will say to the arrogant ones:"Nay! it was a plot (of yours) by day and by night: Behold! Ye (constantly)ordered us to be ungrateful to Allah and to attribute equals to Him!" Theywill declare (their) repentance when they see the Penalty: We shall putyokes on the necks of the Unbelievers: It would only be a requital fortheir (ill) Deeds.
34/34 Never did We send a warner to a population, but the wealthyones among them said: "We believe not in the (Message) with which ye havebeen sent."
34/35 They said: "We have more in wealth and in sons, and we cannotbe punished."
34/36 Say: "Verily my Lord enlarges and restricts the Provision towhom He pleases, but most men understand not."
34/37 It is not your wealth nor your sons, that will bring younearer to Us in degree: but only those who believe and work righteousness -these are the ones for whom there is a multiplied Reward for their deeds,while secure they (reside) in the dwellings on high!
34/38 Those who strive against Our Signs, to frustrate them, will begiven over into Punishment.
34/39 Say: "Verily my Lord enlarges and restricts the Sustenance tosuch of his servants as He pleases: and nothing do ye spend in the least(in His cause) but He replaces it: for He is the Best of those who grantSustenance.
34/40 One Day He will gather them all together, and say to theangels, "Was it you that these men used to worship?"
34/41 They will say, "Glory to Thee! our (tie) is with Thee - asProtector - not with them. Nay, but they worshipped the Jinns: most of thembelieved in them."
34/42 So on that Day no power shall they have over each other, forprofit or harm: and We shall say to the wrong-doers, "Taste ye the Penaltyof the Fire,- the which ye were wont to deny!"
34/43 When Our Clear Signs are rehearsed to them, they say, "This isonly a man who wishes to hinder you from the (worship) which your fatherspractised." And they say, "This is only a falsehood invented!" and theUnbelievers say of the Truth when it comes to them, "This is nothing butevident magic!"
34/44 But We had not given them Books which they could study, norsent messengers to them before thee as Warners.
34/45 And their predecessors rejected (the Truth); these have notreceived a tenth of what We had granted to those: yet when they rejected Mymessengers, how (terrible) was My rejection (of them)!
34/46 Say: "I do admonish you on one point: that ye do stand upbefore Allah,- (It may be) in pairs, or (it may be) singly,- and reflect(within yourselves): your Companion is not possessed: he is no less than awarner to you, in face of a terrible Penalty."
34/47 Say: "No reward do I ask of you: it is (all) in your interest:my reward is only due from Allah: And He is witness to all things."
34/48 Say: "Verily my Lord doth cast the (mantle of) Truth (over Hisservants),- He that has full knowledge of (all) that is hidden."
34/49 Say: "The Truth has arrived, and Falsehood neither createsanything new, nor restores anything."
34/50 Say: "If I am astray, I only stray to the loss of my own soul:but if I receive guidance, it is because of the inspiration of my Lord tome: it is He Who hears all things, and is (ever) near."
34/51 If thou couldst but see when they will quake with terror; butthen there will be no escape (for them), and they will be seized from aposition (quite) near.
34/52 And they will say, "We do believe (now) in the (Truth)"; buthow could they receive (Faith) from a position (so far off,-
34/53 Seeing that they did reject Faith (entirely) before, and thatthey (continually) cast (slanders) on the unseen from a position far off?
34/54 And between them and their desires, is placed a barrier, aswas done in the past with their partisans: for they were indeed insuspicious (disquieting) doubt.
