32/1 A. L. M.
32/2 (This is) the Revelation of the Book in which there is nodoubt,- from the Lord of the Worlds.
32/3 Or do they say, "He has forged it"? Nay, it is the Truth fromthy Lord, that thou mayest admonish a people to whom no warner has comebefore thee: in order that they may receive guidance.
32/4 It is Allah Who has created the heavens and the earth, and allbetween them, in six Days, and is firmly established on the Throne (ofAuthority): ye have none, besides Him, to protect or intercede (for you):will ye not then receive admonition?
32/5 He rules (all) affairs from the heavens to the earth: in theend will (all affairs) go up to Him, on a Day, the space whereof will be(as) a thousand years of your reckoning.
32/6 Such is He, the Knower of all things, hidden and open, theExalted (in power), the Merciful;-
32/7 He Who has made everything which He has created most good: Hebegan the creation of man with (nothing more than) clay,
32/8 And made his progeny from a quintessence of the nature of afluid despised:
32/9 But He fashioned him in due proportion, and breathed into himsomething of His spirit. And He gave you (the faculties of) hearing andsight and feeling (and understanding): little thanks do ye give!
32/10 And they say: "What! when we lie, hidden and lost, in theearth, shall we indeed be in a Creation renewed? Nay, they deny the Meetingwith their Lord.
32/11 Say: "The Angel of Death, put in charge of you, will (duly)take your souls: then shall ye be brought back to your Lord."
32/12 If only thou couldst see when the guilty ones will bend lowtheir heads before their Lord, (saying:) "Our Lord! We have seen and wehave heard: Now then send us back (to the world): we will workrighteousness: for we do indeed (now) believe."
32/13 If We had so willed, We could certainly have brought everysoul its true guidance: but the Word from Me will come true, "I will fillHell with Jinns and men all together."
32/14 "Taste ye then - for ye forgot the Meeting of this Day ofyours, and We too will forget you - taste ye the Penalty of Eternity foryour (evil) deeds!"
32/15 Only those believe in Our Signs, who, when they are recited tothem, fall down in prostration, and celebrate the praises of their Lord, norare they (ever) puffed up with pride.
32/16 Their limbs do forsake their beds of sleep, the while theycall on their Lord, in Fear and Hope: and they spend (in charity) out ofthe sustenance which We have bestowed on them.
32/17 Now no person knows what delights of the eye are kept hidden(in reserve) for them - as a reward for their (good) deeds.
32/18 Is then the man who believes no better than the man who isrebellious and wicked? Not equal are they.
32/19 For those who believe and do righteous deeds are Gardens ashospitable homes, for their (good) deeds.
32/20 As to those who are rebellious and wicked, their abode will bethe Fire: every time they wish to get away therefrom, they will be forcedthereinto, and it will be said to them: "Taste ye the Penalty of the Fire,the which ye were wont to reject as false."
32/21 And indeed We will make them taste of the Penalty of this(life) prior to the supreme Penalty, in order that they may (repent and)return.
32/22 And who does more wrong than one to whom are recited the Signsof his Lord, and who then turns away therefrom? Verily from those whotransgress We shall exact (due) Retribution.
32/23 We did indeed aforetime give the Book to Moses: be not then indoubt of its reaching (thee): and We made it a guide to the Children ofIsrael.
32/24 And We appointed, from among them, leaders, giving guidanceunder Our command, so long as they persevered with patience and continuedto have faith in Our Signs.
32/25 Verily thy Lord will judge between them on the Day ofJudgment, in the matters wherein they differ (among themselves)
32/26 Does it not teach them a lesson, how many generations Wedestroyed before them, in whose dwellings they (now) go to and fro? Verilyin that are Signs: Do they not then listen?
32/27 And do they not see that We do drive rain to parched soil(bare of herbage), and produce therewith crops, providing food for theircattle and themselves? Have they not the vision?
32/28 They say: "When will this decision be, if ye are telling thetruth?"
32/29 Say: "On the Day of Decision, no profit will it be toUnbelievers if they (then) believe! nor will they be granted a respite."
32/30 So turn away from them, and wait: they too are waiting.
