42/1 Ha-Mim
42/2 'Ain. Sin. Qaf.
42/3 Thus doth (He) send inspiration to thee as (He did) to thosebefore thee,- Allah, Exalted in Power, Full of Wisdom.
42/4 To Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: and Heis Most High, Most Great.
42/5 The heavens are almost rent asunder from above them (by HimGlory): and the angels celebrate the Praises of their Lord, and pray forforgiveness for (all) beings on earth: Behold! Verily Allah is He, theOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
42/6 And those who take as protectors others besides Him,- Allah dothwatch over them; and thou art not the disposer of their affairs.
42/7 Thus have We sent by inspiration to thee an Arabic Qur'an:that thou mayest warn the Mother of Cities and all around her,- and warn(them) of the Day of Assembly, of which there is no doubt: (when) some willbe in the Garden, and some in the Blazing Fire.
42/8 If Allah had so willed, He could have made them a single people;but He admits whom He will to His Mercy; and the Wrong-doers will have noprotector nor helper.
42/9 What! Have they taken (for worship) protectors besides Him?But it is Allah,- He is the Protector, and it is He Who gives life to thedead: It is He Who has power over all things,
42/10 Whatever it be wherein ye differ, the decision thereof is withAllah: such is Allah my Lord: In Him I trust, and to Him I turn.
42/11 (He is) the Creator of the heavens and the earth: He has madefor you pairs from among yourselves, and pairs among cattle: by this meansdoes He multiply you: there is nothing whatever like unto Him, and He isthe One that hears and sees (all things).
42/12 To Him belong the keys of the heavens and the earth: Heenlarges and restricts. The Sustenance to whom He will: for He knows fullwell all things.
42/13 The same religion has He established for you as that which Heenjoined on Noah - the which We have sent by inspiration to thee - and thatwhich We enjoined on Abraham, Moses, and Jesus: Namely, that ye shouldremain steadfast in religion, and make no divisions therein: to those whoworship other things than Allah, hard is the (way) to which thou callestthem. Allah chooses to Himself those whom He pleases, and guides to Himselfthose who turn (to Him).
42/14 And they became divided only after Knowledge reached them,-through selfish envy as between themselves. Had it not been for a Word thatwent forth before from thy Lord, (tending) to a Term appointed, the matterwould have been settled between them: But truly those who have inheritedthe Book after them are in suspicious (disquieting) doubt concerning it.
42/15 Now then, for that (reason), call (them to the Faith), andstand steadfast as thou art commanded, nor follow thou their vain desires;but say: "I believe in the Book which Allah has sent down; and I am commandedto judge justly between you. Allah is our Lord and your Lord: for us (is theresponsibility for) our deeds, and for you for your deeds. There is nocontention between us and you. Allah will bring us together, and to Him is(our) Final Goal.
42/16 But those who dispute concerning Allah after He has beenaccepted,- futile is their dispute in the Sight of their Lord: on them willbe a Penalty terrible.
42/17 It is Allah Who has sent down the Book in Truth, and the Balance(by which to weigh conduct). And what will make thee realise that perhapsthe Hour is close at hand?
42/18 Only those wish to hasten it who believe not in it: those whobelieve hold it in awe, and know that it is the Truth. Behold, verily thosethat dispute concerning the Hour are far astray.
42/19 Gracious is Allah to His servants: He gives Sustenance to whomHe pleases: and He has power and can carry out His Will.
42/20 To any that desires the tilth of the Hereafter, We giveincrease in his tilth, and to any that desires the tilth of this world, Wegrant somewhat thereof, but he has no share or lot in the Hereafter.
42/21 What! have they partners (in godhead), who have establishedfor them some religion without the permission of Allah? Had it not been forthe Decree of Judgment, the matter would have been decided between them (atonce). But verily the Wrong-doers will have a grievous Penalty.
42/22 Thou wilt see the Wrong-doers in fear on account of what theyhave earned, and (the burden of) that must (necessarily) fall on them. Butthose who believe and work righteous deeds will be in the luxuriant meadsof the Gardens: they shall have, before their Lord, all that they wish for.That will indeed be the magnificent Bounty (of Allah).
42/23 That is (the Bounty) whereof Allah gives Glad Tidings to HisServants who believe and do righteous deeds. Say: "No reward do I ask ofyou for this except the love of those near of kin." And if any one earnsany good, We shall give him an increase of good in respect thereof: for Allahis Oft-Forgiving, Most Ready to appreciate (service).
42/24 What! Do they say, "He has forged a falsehood against Allah"?But if Allah willed, He could seal up thy heart. And Allah blots out Vanity,and proves the Truth by His Words. For He knows well the secrets of allhearts.
42/25 He is the One that accepts repentance from His Servants andforgives sins: and He knows all that ye do.
42/26 And He listens to those who believe and do deeds ofrighteousness, and gives them increase of His Bounty: but for theUnbelievers their is a terrible Penalty.
42/27 If Allah were to enlarge the provision for His Servants, theywould indeed transgress beyond all bounds through the earth; but he sends(it) down in due measure as He pleases. For He is with His ServantsWell-acquainted, Watchful.
42/28 He is the One that sends down rain (even) after (men) havegiven up all hope, and scatters His Mercy (far and wide). And He is theProtector, Worthy of all Praise.
42/29 And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and theearth, and the living creatures that He has scattered through them: and Hehas power to gather them together when He wills.
42/30 Whatever misfortune happens to you, is because on the thingsyour hands have wrought, and for many (of them) He grants forgiveness.
42/31 Nor can ye frustrate (aught), (fleeing) through the earth; norhave ye, besides Allah, any one to protect or to help.
42/32 And among His Signs are the ships, smooth-running through theocean, (tall) as mountains.
42/33 If it be His Will He can still the Wind: then would theybecome motionless on the back of the (ocean). Verily in this are Signs foreveryone who patiently perseveres and is grateful.
42/34 Or He can cause them to perish because of the (evil) which(the men) have earned; but much doth He forgive.
42/35 But let those know, who dispute about Our Signs, that there isfor them no way of escape.
42/36 Whatever ye are given (here) is (but) a convenience of thislife: but that which is with Allah is better and more lasting: (it is) forthose who believe and put their trust in their Lord:
42/37 Those who avoid the greater crimes and shameful deeds, and,when they are angry even then forgive;
42/38 Those who hearken to their Lord, and establish regular Prayer;who (conduct) their affairs by mutual Consultation; who spend out of whatWe bestow on them for Sustenance;
42/39 And those who, when an oppressive wrong is inflicted on them,(are not cowed but) help and defend themselves.
42/40 The recompense for an injury is an injury equal thereto (indegree): but if a person forgives and makes reconciliation, his reward isdue from Allah: for (Allah) loveth not those who do wrong.
42/41 But indeed if any do help and defend themselves after a wrong(done) to them, against such there is no cause of blame.
42/42 The blame is only against those who oppress men andwrong-doing and insolently transgress beyond bounds through the land,defying right and justice: for such there will be a penalty grievous.
42/43 But indeed if any show patience and forgive, that would trulybe an exercise of courageous will and resolution in the conduct ofaffairs.
42/44 For any whom Allah leaves astray, there is no protectorthereafter. And thou wilt see the Wrong-doers, when in sight of thePenalty, Say: "Is there any way (to effect) a return?"
42/45 And thou wilt see them brought forward to the (Penalty), in ahumble frame of mind because of (their) disgrace, (and) looking with astealthy glance. And the Believers will say: "Those are indeed in loss, whohave given to perdition their own selves and those belonging to them on theDay of Judgment. Behold! Truly the Wrong-doers are in a lasting Penalty!"
42/46 And no protectors have they to help them, other than Allah. Andfor any whom Allah leaves to stray, there is no way (to the Goal).
42/47 Hearken ye to your Lord, before there come a Day which therewill be no putting back, because of (the Ordainment of) Allah! that Day therewill be for you no place of refuge nor will there be for you any room fordenial (of your sins)!
42/48 If then they run away, We have not sent thee as a guard overthem. Thy duty is but to convey (the Message). And truly, when We give mana taste of a Mercy from Ourselves, he doth exult thereat, but when some illhappens to him, on account of the deeds which his hands have sent forth,truly then is man ungrateful!
42/49 To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. Hecreates what He wills (and plans). He bestows (children) male or femaleaccording to His Will (and Plan),
42/50 Or He bestows both males and females, and He leaves barrenwhom He will: for He is full of Knowledge and Power.
42/51 It is not fitting for a man that Allah should speak to himexcept by inspiration, or from behind a veil, or by the sending of amessenger to reveal, with Allah's permission, what Allah wills: for He is MostHigh, Most Wise.
42/52 And thus have We, by Our Command, sent inspiration to thee:thou knewest not (before) what was Revelation, and what was Faith; but Wehave made the (Qur'an) a Light, wherewith We guide such of Our servants asWe will; and verily thou dost guide (men) to the Straight Way,-
42/53 The Way of Allah, to Whom belongs whatever is in the heavens andwhatever is on earth. Behold (how) all affairs tend towards Allah!
