66/1 O Prophet! Why holdest thou to be forbidden that which Allah hasmade lawful to thee? Thou seekest to please thy consorts. But Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
66/2 Allah has already ordained for you, (O men), the dissolution ofyour oaths (in some cases): and Allah is your Protector, and He is Full ofKnowledge and Wisdom.
66/3 When the Prophet disclosed a matter in confidence to one ofhis consorts, and she then divulged it (to another), and Allah made it knownto him, he confirmed part thereof and repudiated a part. Then when he toldher thereof, she said, "Who told thee this? "He said, "He told me Who knowsand is well-acquainted (with all things)."
66/4 If ye two turn in repentance to Him, your hearts are indeed soinclined; But if ye back up each other against him, truly Allah is hisProtector, and Gabriel, and (every) righteous one among those who believe,-and furthermore, the angels - will back (him) up.
66/5 It may be, if he divorced you (all), that Allah will give him inexchange consorts better than you,- who submit (their wills), who believe,who are devout, who turn to Allah in repentance, who worship (in humility),who travel (for Faith) and fast,- previously married or virgins.
66/6 O ye who believe! save yourselves and your families from aFire whose fuel is Men and Stones, over which are (appointed) angels stern(and) severe, who flinch not (from executing) the Commands they receivefrom Allah, but do (precisely) what they are commanded.
66/7 (They will say), "O ye Unbelievers! Make no excuses this Day!Ye are being but requited for all that ye did!"
66/8 O ye who believe! Turn to Allah with sincere repentance: In thehope that your Lord will remove from you your ills and admit you to Gardensbeneath which Rivers flow,- the Day that Allah will not permit to behumiliated the Prophet and those who believe with him. Their Light will runforward before them and by their right hands, while they say, "Our Lord!Perfect our Light for us, and grant us Forgiveness: for Thou hast powerover all things."
66/9 O Prophet! Strive hard against the Unbelievers and theHypocrites, and be firm against them. Their abode is Hell,- an evil refuge(indeed).
66/10 Allah sets forth, for an example to the Unbelievers, the wife ofNoah and the wife of Lut: they were (respectively) under two of ourrighteous servants, but they were false to their (husbands), and theyprofited nothing before Allah on their account, but were told: "Enter ye theFire along with (others) that enter!"
66/11 And Allah sets forth, as an example to those who believe thewife of Pharaoh: Behold she said: "O my Lord! Build for me, in nearness toThee, a mansion in the Garden, and save me from Pharaoh and his doings, andsave me from those that do wrong";
66/12 And Mary the daughter of 'Imran, who guarded her chastity; andWe breathed into (her body) of Our spirit; and she testified to the truthof the words of her Lord and of His Revelations, and was one of the devout(servants).
