65/1 O Prophet! When ye do divorce women, divorce them at theirprescribed periods, and count (accurately), their prescribed periods: Andfear Allah your Lord: and turn them not out of their houses, nor shall they(themselves) leave, except in case they are guilty of some open lewdness,those are limits set by Allah: and any who transgresses the limits of Allah,does verily wrong his (own) soul: thou knowest not if perchance Allah willbring about thereafter some new situation.
65/2 Thus when they fulfil their term appointed, either take themback on equitable terms or part with them on equitable terms; and take forwitness two persons from among you, endued with justice, and establish theevidence (as) before Allah. Such is the admonition given to him who believesin Allah and the Last Day. And for those who fear Allah, He (ever) prepares away out,
65/3 And He provides for him from (sources) he never could imagine.And if any one puts his trust in Allah, sufficient is (Allah) for him. For Allahwill surely accomplish his purpose: verily, for all things has Allahappointed a due proportion.
65/4 Such of your women as have passed the age of monthly courses,for them the prescribed period, if ye have any doubts, is three months, andfor those who have no courses (it is the same): for those who carry (lifewithin their wombs), their period is until they deliver their burdens: andfor those who fear Allah, He will make their path easy.
65/5 That is the Command of Allah, which He has sent down to you: andif any one fears Allah, He will remove his ills, from him, and will enlargehis reward.
65/6 Let the women live (in 'iddat) in the same style as ye live,according to your means: Annoy them not, so as to restrict them. And ifthey carry (life in their wombs), then spend (your substance) on them untilthey deliver their burden: and if they suckle your (offspring), give themtheir recompense: and take mutual counsel together, according to what isjust and reasonable. And if ye find yourselves in difficulties, let anotherwoman suckle (the child) on the (father's) behalf.
65/7 Let the man of means spend according to his means: and the manwhose resources are restricted, let him spend according to what Allah hasgiven him. Allah puts no burden on any person beyond what He has given him.After a difficulty, Allah will soon grant relief.
65/8 How many populations that insolently opposed the Command oftheir Lord and of His messengers, did We not then call to account,- to severeaccount?- and We imposed on them an exemplary Punishment.
65/9 Then did they taste the evil result of their conduct, and theEnd of their conduct was Perdition.
65/10 Allah has prepared for them a severe Punishment (in theHereafter). Therefore fear Allah, O ye men of understanding - who havebelieved!- for Allah hath indeed sent down to you a Message,-
65/11 An Messenger, who rehearses to you the Signs of Allah containingclear explanations, that he may lead forth those who believe and dorighteous deeds from the depths of Darkness into Light. And those whobelieve in Allah and work righteousness, He will admit to Gardens beneathwhich Rivers flow, to dwell therein for ever: Allah has indeed granted forthem a most excellent Provision.
65/12 Allah is He Who created seven Firmaments and of the earth asimilar number. Through the midst of them (all) descends His Command: thatye may know that Allah has power over all things, and that Allah comprehends,all things in (His) Knowledge.
