64/1 Whatever is in the heavens and on earth, doth declare thePraises and Glory of Allah: to Him belongs dominion, and to Him belongspraise: and He has power over all things.
64/2 It is He Who has created you; and of you are some that areUnbelievers, and some that are Believers: and Allah sees well all that yedo.
64/3 He has created the heavens and the earth in just proportions,and has given you shape, and made your shapes beautiful: and to Him is thefinal Goal.
64/4 He knows what is in the heavens and on earth; and He knowswhat ye conceal and what ye reveal: yea, Allah knows well the (secrets) of(all) hearts.
64/5 Has not the story reached you, of those who rejected Faithaforetime? So they tasted the evil result of their conduct; and they had agrievous Penalty.
64/6 That was because there came to them messengers with Clear Signs,but they said: "Shall (mere) human beings direct us?" So they rejected (theMessage) and turned away. But Allah can do without (them): and Allah is free ofall needs, worthy of all praise.
64/7 The Unbelievers think that they will not be raised up (forJudgment). Say: "Yea, By my Lord, Ye shall surely be raised up: then shallye be told (the truth) of all that ye did. And that is easy for Allah."
64/8 Believe, therefore, in Allah and His Messenger, and in the Lightwhich we have sent down. And Allah is well acquainted with all that ye do.
64/9 The Day that He assembles you (all) for a Day of Assembly,-that will be a Day of mutual loss and gain (among you), and those whobelieve in Allah and work righteousness,- He will remove from them theirills, and He will admit them to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow, to dwelltherein for ever: that will be the Supreme Achievement.
64/10 But those who reject Faith and treat Our Signs as falsehoods,they will be Companions of the Fire, to dwell therein for aye: and evil isthat Goal.
64/11 No kind of calamity can occur, except by the leave of Allah: andif any one believes in Allah, (Allah) guides his heart (aright): for Allah knowsall things.
64/12 So obey Allah, and obey His Messenger: but if ye turn back, theduty of Our Messenger is but to proclaim (the Message) clearly and openly.
64/13 Allah! There is no god but He: and on Allah, therefore, let theBelievers put their trust.
64/14 O ye who believe! Truly, among your wives and your childrenare (some that are) enemies to yourselves: so beware of them! But if yeforgive and overlook, and cover up (their faults), verily Allah isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
64/15 Your riches and your children may be but a trial: but in thePresence of Allah, is the highest, Reward.
64/16 So fear Allah as much as ye can; listen and obey and spend incharity for the benefit of your own soul and those saved from thecovetousness of their own souls,- they are the ones that achieveprosperity.
64/17 If ye loan to Allah, a beautiful loan, He will double it to your(credit), and He will grant you Forgiveness: for Allah is most Ready toappreciate (service), Most Forbearing,-
64/18 Knower of what is open, Exalted in Might, Full of Wisdom.
