9/1 A (declaration) of immunity from Allah and His Messenger, to thoseof the Pagans with whom ye have contracted mutual alliances:-
9/2 Go ye, then, for four months, backwards and forwards, (as yewill), throughout the land, but know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah (byyour falsehood) but that Allah will cover with shame those who reject Him.
9/3 And an announcement from Allah and His Messenger, to the people(assembled) on the day of the Great Pilgrimage,- that Allah and His Messengerdissolve (treaty) obligations with the Pagans. If then, ye repent, it werebest for you; but if ye turn away, know ye that ye cannot frustrate Allah.And proclaim a grievous penalty to those who reject Faith.
9/4 (But the treaties are) not dissolved with those Pagans withwhom ye have entered into alliance and who have not subsequently failed youin aught, nor aided any one against you. So fulfil your engagements withthem to the end of their term: for Allah loveth the righteous.
9/5 But when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slaythe Pagans wherever ye find them, an seize them, beleaguer them, and lie inwait for them in every stratagem (of war); but if they repent, andestablish regular prayers and practise regular charity, then open the wayfor them: for Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
9/6 If one amongst the Pagans ask thee for asylum, grant it tohim, so that he may hear the word of Allah; and then escort him to where hecan be secure. That is because they are men without knowledge.
9/7 How can there be a league, before Allah and His Messenger, withthe Pagans, except those with whom ye made a treaty near the sacred Mosque?As long as these stand true to you, stand ye true to them: for Allah dothlove the righteous.
9/8 How (can there be such a league), seeing that if they get anadvantage over you, they respect not in you the ties either of kinship orof covenant? With (fair words from) their mouths they entice you, but theirhearts are averse from you; and most of them are rebellious and wicked.
9/9 The Signs of Allah have they sold for a miserable price, and(many) have they hindered from His way: evil indeed are the deeds they havedone.
9/10 In a Believer they respect not the ties either of kinship orof covenant! It is they who have transgressed all bounds.
9/11 But (even so), if they repent, establish regular prayers, andpractise regular charity,- they are your brethren in Faith: (thus) do Weexplain the Signs in detail, for those who understand.
9/12 But if they violate their oaths after their covenant, andtaunt you for your Faith,- fight ye the chiefs of Unfaith: for their oathsare nothing to them: that thus they may be restrained.
9/13 Will ye not fight people who violated their oaths, plotted toexpel the Messenger, and took the aggressive by being the first (to assault)you? Do ye fear them? Nay, it is Allah Whom ye should more justly fear, if yebelieve!
9/14 Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover themwith shame, help you (to victory) over them, heal the breasts ofBelievers,
9/15 And still the indignation of their hearts. For Allah will turn(in mercy) to whom He will; and Allah is All-Knowing, All-Wise.
9/16 Or think ye that ye shall be abandoned, as though Allah did notknow those among you who strive with might and main, and take none forfriends and protectors except Allah, His Messenger, and the (community of)Believers? But Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do.
9/17 It is not for such as join gods with Allah, to visit or maintainthe mosques of Allah while they witness against their own souls toinfidelity. The works of such bear no fruit: In Fire shall they dwell.
9/18 The mosques of Allah shall be visited and maintained by such asbelieve in Allah and the Last Day, establish regular prayers, and practiseregular charity, and fear  none (at all) except Allah. It is they who areexpected to be on true guidance.
9/19 Do ye make the giving of drink to pilgrims, or the maintenanceof the Sacred Mosque, equal to (the pious service of) those who believe inAllah and the Last Day, and strive with might and main in the cause of Allah?They are not comparable in the sight of Allah: and Allah guides not those whodo wrong.
9/20 Those who believe, and suffer exile and strive with might andmain, in Allah's cause, with their goods and their persons, have the highestrank in the sight of Allah: they are the people who will achieve(salvation).
9/21 Their Lord doth give them glad tidings of a Mercy fromHimself, of His good pleasure, and of gardens for them, wherein aredelights that endure:
9/22 They will dwell therein for ever. Verily in Allah's presence isa reward, the greatest (of all).
9/23 O ye who believe! take not for protectors your fathers andyour brothers if they love infidelity above Faith: if any of you do so,they do wrong.
9/24 Say: If it be that your fathers, your sons, your brothers,your mates, or your kindred; the wealth that ye have gained; the commercein which ye fear a decline: or the dwellings in which ye delight - aredearer to you than Allah, or His Messenger, or the striving in His cause;- thenwait until Allah brings about His decision: and Allah guides not therebellious.
9/25 Assuredly Allah did help you in many battle-fields and on theday of Hunain: Behold! your great numbers elated you, but they availed younaught: the land, for all that it is wide, did constrain you, and ye turnedback in retreat.
9/26 But Allah did pour His calm on the Messenger and on the Believers,and sent down forces which ye saw not: He punished the Unbelievers; thusdoth He reward those without Faith.
9/27 Again will Allah, after this, turn (in mercy) to whom He will:for Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
9/28 O ye who believe! Truly the Pagans are unclean; so let themnot, after this year of theirs, approach the Sacred Mosque. And if ye fearpoverty, soon will Allah enrich you, if He wills, out of His bounty, for Allahis All-knowing, All-wise.
9/29 Fight those who believe not in Allah nor the Last Day, nor holdthat forbidden which hath been forbidden by Allah and His Messenger, noracknowledge the religion of Truth, (even if they are) of the People of theBook, until they pay the Jizya with willing submission, and feel themselvessubdued.
9/30 The Jews call 'Uzair a son of Allah, and the Christians callChrist the son of Allah. That is a saying from their mouth; (in this) theybut imitate what the unbelievers of old used to say. Allah's curse be onthem: how they are deluded away from the Truth!
9/31 They take their priests and their anchorites to be their lordsin derogation of Allah, and (they take as their Lord) Christ the son of Mary;yet they were commanded to worship but One Allah: there is no god but He.Praise and glory to Him: (Far is He) from having the partners theyassociate (with Him).
9/32 Fain would they extinguish Allah's light with their mouths, butAllah will not allow but that His light should be perfected, even though theUnbelievers may detest (it).
9/33 It is He Who hath sent His Messenger with guidance and theReligion of Truth, to proclaim it over all religion, even though the Pagansmay detest (it).
9/34 O ye who believe! there are indeed many among the priests andanchorites, who in Falsehood devour the substance of men and hinder (them)from the way of Allah. And there are those who bury gold and silver and spendit not in the way of Allah: announce unto them a most grievous penalty-
9/35 On the Day when heat will be produced out of that (wealth) inthe fire of Hell, and with it will be branded their foreheads, their flanks, and their backs.- "This is the(treasure) which ye buried for yourselves: taste ye, then, the (treasures)ye buried!"
9/36 The number of months in the sight of Allah is twelve (in ayear)- so ordained by Him the day He created the heavens and the earth; ofthem four are sacred: that is the straight usage. So wrong not yourselvestherein, and fight the Pagans all together as they fight you all together.But know that Allah is with those who restrain themselves.
9/37 Verily the transposing (of a prohibited month) is an additionto Unbelief: the Unbelievers are led to wrong thereby: for they make itlawful one year, and forbidden another year, in order to adjust the numberof months forbidden by Allah and make such forbidden ones lawful. The evil oftheir course seems pleasing to them. But Allah guideth not those who rejectFaith.
9/38 O ye who believe! what is the matter with you, that, when yeare asked to go forth in the cause of Allah, ye cling heavily to the earth?Do ye prefer the life of this world to the Hereafter? But little is thecomfort of this life, as compared with the Hereafter.
9/39 Unless ye go forth, He will punish you with a grievouspenalty, and put others in your place; but Him ye would not harm in theleast. For Allah hath power over all things.
9/40 If ye help not (your leader), (it is no matter): for Allah didindeed help him, when the Unbelievers drove him out: he had no more thanone companion; they two were in the cave, and he said to his companion,"Have no fear, for Allah is with us": then Allah sent down His peace upon him,and strengthened him with forces which ye saw not, and humbled to thedepths the word of the Unbelievers. But the word of Allah is exalted to theheights: for Allah is Exalted in might, Wise.
9/41 Go ye forth, (whether equipped) lightly or heavily, and striveand struggle, with your goods and your persons, in the cause of Allah. Thatis best for you, if ye (but) knew.
9/42 If there had been immediate gain (in sight), and the journeyeasy, they would (all) without doubt have followed thee, but the distancewas long, (and weighed) on them. They would indeed swear by Allah, "If weonly could, we should certainly have come out with you": They would destroytheir own souls; for Allah doth know that they are certainly lying.
9/43 Allah give thee grace! why didst thou grant them until those whotold the truth were seen by thee in a clear light, and thou hadst provedthe liars?
9/44 Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day ask thee for noexemption from fighting with their goods and persons. And Allah knoweth wellthose who do their duty.
9/45 Only those ask thee for exemption who believe not in Allah andthe Last Day, and whose hearts are in doubt, so that they are tossed intheir doubts to and fro.
9/46 If they had intended to come out, they would certainly havemade some preparation therefor; but Allah was averse to their being sentforth; so He made them lag behind, and they were told, "Sit ye among thosewho sit (inactive)."
9/47 If they had come out with you, they would not have added toyour (strength) but only (made for) disorder, hurrying to and fro in yourmidst and sowing sedition among you, and there would have been some amongyou who would have listened to them. But Allah knoweth well those who dowrong.
9/48 Indeed they had plotted sedition before, and upset matters forthee, until,- the Truth arrived, and the Decree of Allah became manifest muchto their disgust.
9/49 Among them is (many) a man who says: "Grant me exemption anddraw me not into trial." Have they not fallen into trial already? andindeed Hell surrounds the Unbelievers (on all sides).
9/50 If good befalls thee, it grieves them; but if a misfortunebefalls thee, they say, "We took indeed our precautions beforehand," andthey turn away rejoicing.
9/51 Say: "Nothing will happen to us except what Allah has decreedfor us: He is our protector": and on Allah let the Believers put theirtrust.
9/52 Say: "Can you expect for us (any fate) other than one of twoglorious things- (Martyrdom or victory)? But we can expect for you eitherthat Allah will send his punishment from Himself, or by our hands. So wait(expectant); we too will wait with you."
9/53 Say: "Spend (for the cause) willingly or unwillingly: not fromyou will it be accepted: for ye are indeed a people rebellious andwicked."
9/54 The only reasons why their contributions are not accepted are:that they reject Allah and His Messenger; that they come to prayer withoutearnestness; and that they offer contributions unwillingly.
9/55 Let not their wealth nor their (following in) sons dazzlethee: in reality Allah's plan is to punish them with these things in thislife, and that their souls may perish in their (very) denial of Allah.
9/56 They swear by Allah that they are indeed of you; but they arenot of you: yet they are afraid (to appear in their true colours).
9/57 If they could find a place to flee to, or caves, or a place ofconcealment, they would turn straightaway thereto, with an obstinate rush.
9/58 And among them are men who slander thee in the matter of (thedistribution of) the alms: if they are given part thereof, they arepleased, but if not, behold! they are indignant!
9/59 If only they had been content with what Allah and His Messengergave them, and had said, "Sufficient unto us is Allah! Allah and His Messengerwill soon give us of His bounty: to Allah do we turn our hopes!" (that wouldhave been the right course).
9/60 Alms are for the poor and the needy, and those employed toadminister the (funds); for those whose hearts have been (recently)reconciled (to Truth); for those in bondage and in debt; in the cause ofAllah; and for the wayfarer: (thus is it) ordained by Allah, and Allah is full ofknowledge and wisdom.
9/61 Among them are men who molest the Prophet and say, "He is(all) ear." Say, "He listens to what is best for you: he believes in Allah,has faith in the Believers, and is a Mercy to those of you who believe."But those who molest the Messenger will have a grievous penalty.
9/62 To you they swear by Allah. In order to please you: But it ismore fitting that they should please Allah and His Messenger, if they areBelievers.
9/63 Know they not that for those who oppose Allah and His Messenger,is the Fire of Hell?- wherein they shall dwell. That is the supremedisgrace.
9/64 The Hypocrites are afraid lest a Sura should be sent downabout them, showing them what is (really passing) in their hearts. Say:"Mock ye! But verily Allah will bring to light all that ye fear (should berevealed).
9/65 If thou dost question them, they declare (with emphasis): "Wewere only talking idly and in play." Say: "Was it at Allah, and His Signs,and His Messenger, that ye were mocking?"
9/66 Make ye no excuses: ye have rejected Faith after ye hadaccepted it. If We pardon some of you, We will punish others amongst you,for that they are in sin.
9/67 The Hypocrites, men and women, (have an understanding) witheach other: They enjoin evil, and forbid what is just, and are close withtheir hands. They have forgotten Allah; so He hath forgotten them. Verily theHypocrites are rebellious and perverse.
9/68 Allah hath promised the Hypocrites men and women, and therejecters, of Faith, the fire of Hell: Therein shall they dwell: Sufficientis it for them: for them is the curse of Allah, and an enduring punishment,-
9/69 As in the case of those before you: they were mightier thanyou in power, and more flourishing in wealth and children. They had theirenjoyment of their portion: and ye have of yours, as did those before you;and ye indulge in idle talk as they did. They!- their work are fruitless inthis world and in the Hereafter, and they will lose (all spiritual good).
9/70 Hath not the story reached them of those before them?- thePeople of Noah, and 'Ad, and Thamud; the People of Abraham, the men ofMidian, and the cities overthrown. To them came their messengers with clearsigns. It is not Allah Who wrongs them, but they wrong their own souls.
9/71 The Believers, men and women, are protectors one of another:they enjoin what is just, and forbid what is evil: they observe regularprayers, practise regular charity, and obey Allah and His Messenger. On themwill Allah pour His mercy: for Allah is Exalted in power, Wise.
9/72 Allah hath promised to Believers, men and women, gardens underwhich rivers flow, to dwell therein, and beautiful mansions in gardens ofeverlasting bliss. But the greatest bliss is the good pleasure of Allah: thatis the supreme felicity.
9/73 O Prophet! strive hard against the unbelievers and theHypocrites, and be firm against them. Their abode is Hell,- an evil refugeindeed.
9/74 They swear by Allah that they said nothing (evil), but indeedthey uttered blasphemy, and they did it after accepting Islam; and theymeditated a plot which they were unable to carry out: this revenge oftheirs was (their) only return for the bounty with which Allah and HisMessenger had enriched them! If they repent, it will be best for them; but ifthey turn back (to their evil ways), Allah will punish them with a grievouspenalty in this life and in the Hereafter: They shall have none on earth toprotect or help them.
9/75 Amongst them are men who made a covenant with Allah, that if Hebestowed on them of His bounty, they would give (largely) in charity, andbe truly amongst those who are righteous.
9/76 But when He did bestow of His bounty, they became covetous,and turned back (from their covenant), averse (from its fulfilment).
9/77 So He hath put as a consequence hypocrisy into their hearts,(to last) till the Day, whereon they shall meet Him: because they broketheir covenant with Allah, and because they lied (again and again).
9/78 Know they not that Allah doth know their secret (thoughts) andtheir secret counsels, and that Allah knoweth well all things unseen?
9/79 Those who slander such of the believers as give themselvesfreely to (deeds of) charity, as well as such as can find nothing to giveexcept the fruits of their labour,- and throw ridicule on them,- Allah willthrow back their ridicule on them: and they shall have a grievous penalty.
9/80 Whether thou ask for their forgiveness, or not, (their sin isunforgivable): if thou ask seventy times for their forgiveness, Allah willnot forgive them:  because they have rejected Allah and His Messenger: and Allahguideth not those who are perversely rebellious.
9/81 Those who were left behind (in the Tabuk expedition) rejoicedin their inaction behind the back of the Messenger of Allah: they hated tostrive and fight, with their goods and their persons, in the cause of Allah:they said, "Go not forth in the heat."  Say, "The fire of Hell is fiercerin heat." If only they could understand!
9/82 Let them laugh a little: much will they weep: a recompense forthe (evil) that they do.
9/83 If, then, Allah bring thee back to any of them, and they ask thypermission to come out (with thee), say: "Never shall ye come out with me,nor fight an enemy with me:  for ye preferred to sit inactive on the firstoccasion: Then sit ye (now) with those who lag behind."
9/84 Nor do thou ever pray for any of them that dies, nor stand athis grave; for they rejected Allah and His Messenger, and died in a state ofperverse rebellion.
9/85 Nor let their wealth nor their (following in) sons dazzlethee: Allah's plan is to punish them with these things in this world, andthat their souls may perish in their (very) denial of Allah.
9/86 When a Sura comes down, enjoining them to believe in Allah andto strive and fight along with His Messenger, those with wealth and influenceamong them ask thee for exemption, and say: "Leave us (behind): we would bewith those who sit (at home)."
9/87 They prefer to be with (the women), who remain behind (athome): their hearts are sealed and so they understand not.
9/88 But the Messenger, and those who believe with him, strive andfight with their wealth and their persons: for them are (all) good things:and it is they who will prosper.
9/89 Allah hath prepared for them gardens under which rivers flow, todwell therein: that is the supreme felicity.
9/90 And there were, among the desert Arabs (also), men who madeexcuses and came to claim exemption; and those who were false to Allah andHis Messenger (merely) sat inactive. Soon will a grievous penalty seize theUnbelievers among them.
9/91 There is no blame on those who are infirm, or ill, or who findno resources to spend (on the cause), if they are sincere (in duty) to Allahand His Messenger: no ground (of complaint) can there be against such as doright: and Allah is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful.
9/92 Nor (is there blame) on those who came to thee to be providedwith mounts, and when thou saidst, "I can find no mounts for you," theyturned back, their eyes streaming with tears of grief that they had noresources wherewith to provide the expenses.
9/93 The ground (of complaint) is against such as claim exemptionwhile they are rich. They prefer to stay with the (women) who remainbehind: Allah hath sealed their hearts; so they know not (What they miss).
9/94 They will present their excuses to you when ye return to them.Say thou: "Present no excuses: we shall not believe you: Allah hath alreadyinformed us of the true state of matters concerning you: It is your actionsthat Allah and His Messenger will observe: in the end will ye be brought backto Him Who knoweth what is hidden and what is open: then will He show youthe truth of all that ye did."
9/95 They will swear to you by Allah, when ye return to them, that yemay leave them alone. So leave them alone: For they are an abomination, andHell is their dwelling-place,-a fitting recompense for the (evil)  thatthey did.
9/96 They will swear unto you, that ye may be pleased with them butif ye are pleased with them, Allah is not pleased with those who disobey.
9/97 The Arabs of the desert are the worst in Unbelief andhypocrisy, and most fitted to be in ignorance of the command which Allah hathsent down to His Messenger: But Allah is All-knowing, All-Wise.
9/98 Some of the desert Arabs look upon their payments as a fine,and watch for disasters for you: on them be the disaster of evil: for Allahis He That heareth and knoweth (all things).
9/99 But some of the desert Arabs believe in Allah and the Last Day,and look on their payments as pious gifts bringing them nearer to Allah andobtaining the prayers of the Messenger. Aye, indeed they bring them nearer(to Him): soon will Allah admit them to His Mercy: for Allah is Oft-forgiving,Most Merciful.
9/100 The vanguard (of Islam)- the first of those who forsook (theirhomes) and of those who gave them aid, and (also) those who follow them in(all) good deeds,- well-pleased is Allah with them, as are they with Him: forthem hath He prepared gardens under which rivers flow, to dwell therein forever: that is the supreme felicity.
9/101 Certain of the desert Arabs round about you are hypocrites,as well as (desert Arabs) among the Medina folk: they are obstinate inhypocrisy: thou knowest them not: We know them: twice shall We punish them:and in addition shall they be sent to a grievous penalty.
9/102 Others (there are who) have acknowledged their wrong-doings:they have mixed an act that was good with another that was evil. PerhapsAllah will turn unto them (in Mercy): for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, MostMerciful.
9/103 Of their goods, take alms, that so thou mightest purify andsanctify them; and pray on their behalf. Verily thy prayers are a source ofsecurity for them: And Allah is One Who heareth and knoweth.
9/104 Know they not that Allah doth accept repentance from Hisvotaries and receives their gifts of charity, and that Allah is verily He,the Oft-Returning, Most Merciful?
9/105 And say: "Work (righteousness): Soon will Allah observe yourwork, and His Messenger, and the Believers: Soon will ye be brought back tothe knower of what is hidden and what is open: then will He show you thetruth of all that ye did."
9/106 There are (yet) others, held in suspense for the command ofAllah, whether He will punish them, or turn in mercy to them: and Allah isAll-Knowing, Wise.
9/107 And there are those who put up a mosque by way of mischief andinfidelity - to disunite the Believers - and in preparation for one whowarred against Allah and His Messenger aforetime. They will indeed swear thattheir intention is nothing but good; But Allah doth declare that they arecertainly liars.
9/108 Never stand thou forth therein. There is a mosque whosefoundation was laid from the first day on piety; it is more worthy of thestanding forth (for prayer) therein. In it are men who love to be purified;and Allah loveth those who make themselves pure.
9/109 Which then is best? - he that layeth his foundation on pietyto Allah and His good pleasure? - or he that layeth his foundation on anundermined sand-cliff ready to crumble to pieces? and it doth crumble topieces with him, into the fire of Hell. And Allah guideth not people that dowrong.
9/110 The foundation of those who so build is never free fromsuspicion and shakiness in their hearts, until their hearts are cut topieces. And Allah is All-Knowing, Wise.
9/111 Allah hath purchased of the believers their persons and theirgoods; for theirs (in return) is the garden (of Paradise):  they fight inHis cause, and slay and are slain: a promise binding on Him in truth,through the Law, the Gospel, and the Qur'an: and who is more faithful tohis covenant than Allah? then rejoice in the bargain which ye have concluded:that is the achievement supreme.
9/112 Those that turn (to Allah) in repentance; that serve Him, andpraise Him; that wander in devotion to the cause of Allah,: that bow down andprostrate themselves in prayer; that enjoin good and forbid evil; andobserve the limit set by Allah;- (These do rejoice). So proclaim the gladtidings to the Believers.
9/113 It is not fitting, for the Prophet and those who believe, thatthey should pray for forgiveness for Pagans, even though they be of kin,after it is clear to them that they are companions of the Fire.
9/114 And Abraham prayed for his father's forgiveness only becauseof a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear to him that hewas an enemy to Allah, he dissociated himself from him: for Abraham was mosttender-hearted, forbearing.
9/115 And Allah will not mislead a people after He hath guided them,in order that He may make clear to them what to fear (and avoid)- for Allahhath knowledge of all things.
9/116 Unto Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth.He giveth life and He taketh it. Except for Him ye have no protector norhelper.
9/117 Allah turned with favour to the Prophet, the Muhajirs, and theAnsar,- who followed him in a time of distress, after that the hearts of apart of them had nearly swerved (from duty); but He turned to them (also):for He is unto them Most Kind, Most Merciful.
9/118 (He turned in mercy also) to the three who were left behind;(they felt guilty) to such a degree that the earth seemed constrained tothem, for all its spaciousness, and their (very) souls seemed  straitenedto them,- and they perceived that there is no fleeing from Allah (and norefuge) but to Himself. Then He turned to them, that they might repent: forAllah is Oft-Returning, Most Merciful.
9/119 O ye who believe! Fear Allah and be with those who are true (inword and deed).
9/120 It was not fitting for the people of Medina and the BedouinArabs of the neighbourhood, to refuse to follow Allah's Messenger, nor toprefer their own lives to his: because nothing could they suffer or do, butwas reckoned to their credit as a deed of righteousness,- whether theysuffered thirst, or fatigue, or hunger, in the cause of Allah, or trod pathsto raise the ire of the Unbelievers, or received any injury whatever froman enemy: for Allah suffereth not the reward to be lost of those who dogood;-
9/121 Nor could they spend anything (for the cause) - small orgreat- nor cut across a valley, but the deed is inscribed to their credit:that Allah may requite their deed with the best (possible reward).
9/122 Nor should the Believers all go forth together: if acontingent from every expedition remained behind, they could devotethemselves to studies in religion, and admonish the people when they returnto them,- that thus they (may learn) to guard themselves (against evil).
9/123 O ye who believe! fight the unbelievers who gird you about,and let them find firmness in you: and know that Allah is with those who fearHim.
9/124 Whenever there cometh down a sura, some of them say: "Which ofyou has had His faith increased by it?" Yea, those who believe,- theirfaith is increased and they do rejoice.
9/125 But those in whose hearts is a disease,- it will add doubt totheir doubt, and they will die in a state of Unbelief.
9/126 See they not that they are tried every year once or twice? Yetthey turn not in repentance, and they take no heed.
9/127 Whenever there cometh down a Sura, they look at each other,(saying), "Doth anyone see you?" Then they turn aside: Allah hath turnedtheir hearts (from the light); for they are a people that understand not.
9/128 Now hath come unto you a Messenger from amongst yourselves: itgrieves him that ye should perish: ardently anxious is he over you: to theBelievers is he most kind and merciful.
9/129 But if they turn away, Say: "Allah sufficeth me: there is no godbut He: On Him is my trust,- He the Lord of the Throne (of Glory)Supreme!"
