10/1 A.L.R. These are the ayats of the Book of Wisdom.
10/2 Is it a matter of wonderment to men that We have sent Ourinspiration to a man from among themselves?- that he should warn mankind(of their danger), and give the good news to the Believers that they havebefore their Lord the lofty rank of truth. (But) say the Unbelievers: "Thisis indeed an evident sorcerer!"
10/3 Verily your Lord is Allah, who created the heavens and the earthin six days, and is firmly established on the throne (of authority),regulating and governing all things. No intercessor (can plead with Him)except after His leave (hath been obtained). This is Allah your Lord; Himtherefore serve ye: will ye not receive admonition?
10/4 To Him will be your return- of all of you. The promise of Allahis true and sure. It is He Who beginneth the process of creation, andrepeateth it, that He may reward with justice those who believe and workrighteousness; but those who reject Him will have draughts of boilingfluids, and a penalty grievous, because they did reject Him.
10/5 It is He Who made the sun to be a shining glory and the moonto be a light (of beauty), and measured out stages for her; that ye mightknow the number of years and the count (of time). Nowise did Allah createthis but in truth and righteousness. (Thus) doth He explain His Signs indetail, for those who understand.
10/6 Verily, in the alternation of the night and the day, and inall that Allah hath created, in the heavens and the earth, are signs forthose who fear Him.
10/7 Those who rest not their hope on their meeting with Us, butare pleased and satisfied with the life of the present, and those who heednot Our Signs,-
10/8 Their abode is the Fire, because of the (evil) they earned.
10/9 Those who believe, and work righteousness,- their Lord willguide them because of their faith: beneath them will flow rivers in gardensof bliss.
10/10 (This will be) their cry therein: "Glory to Thee, O Allah!" And"Peace" will be their greeting therein! and the close of their cry will be:"Praise be to Allah, the Cherisher and Sustainer of the worlds!"
10/11 If Allah were to hasten for men the ill (they have earned) asthey would fain hasten on the good,- then would their respite be settled atonce. But We leave those who rest not their hope on their meeting with Us,in their trespasses, wandering in distraction to and fro.
10/12 When trouble toucheth a man, He crieth unto Us (in allpostures)- lying down on his side, or sitting, or standing. But when Wehave solved his trouble, he passeth on his way as if he had never cried toUs for a trouble that touched him! thus do the deeds of transgressors seemfair in their eyes!
10/13 Generations before you We destroyed when they did wrong: theirmessengers came to them with clear-signs, but they would not believe! thus doWe requite those who sin!
10/14 Then We made you heirs in the land after them, to see how yewould behave!
10/15 But when Our Clear Signs are rehearsed unto them, those whorest not their hope on their meeting with Us, Say: "Bring us a readingother than this, or change this," Say: "It is not for me, of my own accord,to change it: I follow naught but what is revealed unto me: if I were todisobey my Lord, I should myself fear the penalty of a Great Day (tocome)."
10/16 Say: "If Allah had so willed, I should not have rehearsed it toyou, nor would He have made it known to you. A whole life-time before thishave I tarried amongst you: will ye not then understand?"
10/17 Who doth more wrong than such as forge a lie against Allah, ordeny His Signs? But never will prosper those who sin.
10/18 They serve, besides Allah, things that hurt them not nor profitthem, and they say: "These are our intercessors with Allah." Say: "Do yeindeed inform Allah of something He knows not, in the heavens or on earth?-Glory to Him! and far is He above the partners they ascribe (to Him)!"
10/19 Mankind was but one nation, but differed (later). Had it notbeen for a word that went forth before from thy Lord, their differenceswould have been settled between them.
10/20 They say: "Why is not a sign sent down to him from his Lord?"Say: "The Unseen is only for Allah (to know),  then wait ye: I too will waitwith you."
10/21 When We make mankind taste of some mercy after adversity hathtouched them, behold! they take to plotting against Our Signs! Say:"Swifter to plan is Allah!" Verily, Our messengers record all the plots thatye make!
10/22 He it is Who enableth you to traverse through land and sea; sothat ye even board ships;- they sail with them with a favourable wind, andthey rejoice thereat; then comes a stormy wind and the waves come to themfrom all sides, and they think they are being overwhelmed: they cry untoAllah, sincerely offering (their) duty unto Him saying, "If thou dost deliverus from this, we shall truly show our gratitude!"
10/23 But when he delivereth them, behold! they transgressinsolently through the earth in defiance of right! O mankind! yourinsolence is against your own souls,- an enjoyment of the life of thepresent: in the end, to Us is your return, and We shall show you the truthof all that ye did.
10/24 The likeness of the life of the present is as the rain whichWe send down from the skies: by its mingling arises the produce of theearth- which provides food for men and animals: (It grows) till the earthis clad  with its golden ornaments and is decked out (in beauty): thepeople to whom it belongs think they have all powers of disposal over it:There reaches it Our command by night or by day, and We make it like aharvest clean-mown, as if it had not flourished only the day before! thusdo We explain the Signs in detail for those who reflect.
10/25 But Allah doth call to the Home of Peace: He doth guide whom Hepleaseth to a way that is straight.
10/26 To those who do right is a goodly (reward)- Yea, more (than inmeasure)! No darkness nor shame shall cover their faces! they arecompanions of the garden; they will abide therein (for aye)!
10/27 But those who have earned evil will have a reward of likeevil: ignominy will cover their (faces): No defender will they have from(the wrath of) Allah:  Their faces will be covered, as it were, with piecesfrom the depth of the darkness of night: they are companions of the Fire:they will  abide therein (for aye)!
10/28 One day shall We gather them all together. Then shall We sayto those who joined gods (with Us): "To your place! ye and those ye joinedas 'partners' We shall separate them, and their "Partners" shall say: "Itwas not us that ye worshipped!
10/29 "Enough is Allah for a witness between us and you: we certainlyknew nothing of your worship of us!"
10/30 There will every soul prove (the fruits of) the deeds it sentbefore: they will be brought back to Allah their rightful Lord, and theirinvented falsehoods will leave them in the lurch.
10/31 Say: "Who is it that sustains you (in life) from the sky andfrom the earth? or who is it that has power over hearing and sight? And whois it that brings out the living from the dead and the dead from theliving? and who is it that rules and regulates all affairs?" They will soonsay, "Allah". Say, "will ye not then show piety (to Him)?"
10/32 Such is Allah, your real Cherisher and Sustainer: apart fromtruth, what (remains) but error? How then are ye turned away?
10/33 Thus is the word of thy Lord proved true against those whorebel: Verily they will not believe.
10/34 Say: "Of your 'partners', can any originate creation andrepeat it?" Say:  "It is Allah Who originates creation and repeats it: thenhow are ye deluded away (from the truth)?"
10/35 Say: "Of your 'partners' is there any that can give anyguidance towards truth?" Say: "It is Allah Who gives guidance towards truth,is then He Who gives guidance to truth more worthy to be followed, or hewho finds not guidance (himself) unless he is guided? what then is thematter with you? How judge ye?"
10/36 But most of them follow nothing but fancy: truly fancy can beof no avail against truth. Verily Allah is well aware of all that they do.
10/37 This Qur'an is not such as can be produced by other than Allah;on the contrary it is a confirmation of (revelations) that went before it,and a fuller explanation of the Book - wherein there is no doubt - from theLord of the worlds.
10/38 Or do they say, "He forged it"? say: "Bring then a Sura likeunto it, and call (to your aid) anyone you can besides Allah, if it be yespeak the truth!"
10/39 Nay, they charge with falsehood that whose knowledge theycannot compass, even before the elucidation thereof hath reached them: thusdid those before them make charges of falsehood: but see what was the endof those who did wrong!
10/40 Of them there are some who believe therein, and some who donot: and thy Lord knoweth best those who are out for mischief.
10/41 If they charge thee with falsehood, say: "My work to me, andyours to you! ye are free from responsibility for what I do, and I for whatye do!"
10/42 Among them are some who (pretend to) listen to thee: But canstthou make the deaf to hear,- even though they are without understanding?
10/43 And among them are some who look at thee: but canst thouguide the blind,- even though they will not see?
10/44 Verily Allah will not deal unjustly with man in aught: It is manthat wrongs his own soul.
10/45 One day He will gather them together: (It will be) as if theyhad tarried but an hour of a day:  they will recognise each other:assuredly those will be lost who denied the meeting with Allah and refused toreceive true guidance.
10/46 Whether We show thee (realised in thy life-time) some part ofwhat We promise them,- or We take thy soul (to Our Mercy) (Before that),-in any case, to Us is their return: ultimately Allah is witness, to all thatthey do.
10/47 To every people (was sent) a messenger: when their messengercomes (before them), the matter will be judged between them with justice,and they will not be wronged.
10/48 They say: "When will this promise come to pass,- if ye speakthe truth?"
10/49 Say: "I have no power over any harm or profit to myself exceptas Allah willeth. To every people is a term appointed: when their term isreached, not an hour can they cause delay, nor (an hour) can they advance(it in anticipation)."
10/50 Say: "Do ye see,- if His punishment should come to you bynight or by day,- what portion of it would the sinners wish to hasten?
10/51 "Would ye then believe in it at last, when it actually comethto pass? (It will then be said): 'Ah! now? and ye wanted (aforetime) tohasten it on!'
10/52 "At length will be said to the wrong-doers: 'Taste ye theenduring punishment! ye get but the recompense of what ye earned!'"
10/53 They seek to be informed by thee: "Is that true?" Say: "Aye!by my Lord!  it is the very truth! and ye cannot frustrate it!"
10/54 Every soul that hath sinned, if it possessed all that is onearth, would fain give it in ransom: They would declare (their) repentancewhen they see the penalty:  but the judgment between them will be withjustice, and no wrong will be done unto them.
10/55 Is it not (the case) that to Allah belongeth whatever is in theheavens and on earth? Is it not (the case) that Allah's promise is assuredlytrue? Yet most of them understand not.
10/56 It is He Who giveth life and who taketh it, and to Him shallye all be brought back.
10/57 O mankind! there hath come to you a direction from your Lordand a healing for the (diseases) in your hearts,- and for those whobelieve, a guidance and a Mercy.
10/58 Say: "In the bounty of Allah. And in His Mercy,- in that letthem rejoice": that is better than the (wealth) they hoard.
10/59 Say: "See ye what things Allah hath sent down to you forsustenance? Yet ye hold forbidden some things thereof and (some things)lawful." Say: "Hath Allah indeed permitted you, or do ye invent (things) toattribute to Allah?"
10/60 And what think those who invent lies against Allah, of the Dayof Judgment? Verily Allah is full of bounty to mankind, but most of them areungrateful.
10/61 In whatever business thou mayest be, and whatever portion thoumayest be reciting from the Qur'an,- and whatever deed ye (mankind) may bedoing,- We are witnesses thereof when ye are deeply engrossed therein. Noris hidden from thy Lord (so much as) the weight of an atom on the earth orin heaven. And not the least and not the greatest of these things but arerecorded in a clear record.
10/62 Behold! verily on the friends of Allah there is no fear, norshall they grieve;
10/63 Those who believe and (constantly) guard against evil;-
10/64 For them are glad tidings, in the life of the present and inthe Hereafter; no change can there be in the words of Allah. This is indeedthe supreme felicity.
10/65 Let not their speech grieve thee: for all power and honourbelong to Allah: It is He Who heareth and knoweth (all things).
10/66 Behold! verily to Allah belong all creatures, in the heavens andon earth. What do they follow who worship as His "partners" other than Allah?They follow nothing but fancy, and they do nothing but lie.
10/67 He it is That hath made you the night that ye may resttherein, and the day to make things visible (to you). Verily in this aresigns for those who listen (to His Message).
10/68 They say: "Allah hath begotten a son!" - Glory be to Him! He isself-sufficient! His are all things in the heavens and on earth! No warranthave ye for this! say ye about Allah what ye know not?
10/69 Say: "Those who invent a lie against Allah will never prosper."
10/70 A little enjoyment in this world!- and then, to Us will betheir return, then shall We make them taste the severest penalty for theirblasphemies.
10/71 Relate to them the story of Noah. Behold! he said to hispeople: "O my people, if it be hard on your (mind) that I should stay (withyou) and commemorate the signs of Allah,- yet I put my trust in Allah.  Get yethen an agreement about your plan and among your partners, so your plan beon to you dark and dubious. Then pass your sentence on me, and give me norespite.
10/72 "But if ye turn back, (consider): no reward have I asked ofyou: my reward is only due from Allah, and I have been commanded to be ofthose who submit to Allah's will (in Islam)."
10/73 They rejected Him, but We delivered him, and those with him,in the Ark, and We made them inherit (the earth), while We overwhelmed inthe flood those who rejected Our Signs. Then see what was the end of thosewho were warned (but heeded not)!
10/74 Then after him We sent (many) messengers to their peoples: theybrought them Clear Signs, but they would not believe what they had alreadyrejected beforehand. Thus do We seal the hearts of the transgressors.
10/75 Then after them sent We Moses and Aaron to Pharaoh and hischiefs with Our Signs. But they were arrogant: they were a people in sin.
10/76 When the Truth did come to them from Us, they said: "This isindeed evident sorcery!"
10/77 Said Moses: "Say ye (this) about the truth when it hath(actually) reached you? Is sorcery (like) this? But sorcerers will notprosper."
10/78 They said: "Hast thou come to us to turn us away from the wayswe found our fathers following,- in order that thou and thy brother mayhave greatness in the land? But not we shall believe in you!"
10/79 Said Pharaoh: "Bring me every sorcerer well versed."
10/80 When the sorcerers came, Moses said to them: "Throw ye what ye(wish) to throw!"
10/81 When they had had their throw, Moses said: "What ye havebrought is sorcery: Allah will surely make it of no effect: for Allahprospereth not the work of those who make mischief.
10/82 "And Allah by His words doth prove and establish His truth,however much the sinners may hate it!"
10/83 But none believed in Moses except some children of his people,because of the fear of Pharaoh and his chiefs, lest they should persecutethem; and certainly Pharaoh was mighty on the earth and one whotransgressed all bounds.
10/84 Moses said: "O my people! If ye do (really) believe in Allah,then in Him put your trust if ye submit (your will to His)."
10/85 They said: "In Allah do we put out trust. Our Lord! make us nota trial for those who practise oppression;
10/86 "And deliver us by Thy Mercy from those who reject (Thee)."
10/87 We inspired Moses and his brother with this Message: "Providedwellings for your people  in Egypt, make your dwellings into places ofworship, and establish regular prayers: and give glad tidings to those whobelieve!"
10/88 Moses prayed: "Our Lord! Thou hast indeed bestowed on Pharaohand his chiefs splendour and wealth in the life of the present, and so, OurLord, they mislead (men) from Thy Path. Deface our Lord, the features oftheir wealth, and send hardness to their hearts, so they will not believeuntil they see the grievous penalty."
10/89 Allah said: "Accepted is your prayer (O Moses and Aaron)! Sostand ye straight, and follow not the path of those who know not."
10/90 We took the Children of Israel across the sea: Pharaoh and hishosts followed them in insolence and spite. At length, when overwhelmedwith the flood, he said: "I believe that there is no god except Him Whomthe Children of Israel believe in: I am of those who submit (to Allah inIslam)."
10/91 (It was said to him): "Ah now!- But a little while before,wast thou in rebellion!- and thou didst mischief (and violence)!
10/92 "This day shall We save thee in the body, that thou mayest bea sign to those who come after thee! but verily, many among mankind areheedless of Our Signs!"
10/93 We settled the Children of Israel in a beautifuldwelling-place, and provided for them sustenance of the best: it was afterknowledge had been granted to them, that they fell into schisms. Verily Allahwill judge between them as to the schisms amongst them, on the Day ofJudgment.
10/94 If thou wert in doubt as to what We have revealed unto thee,then ask those who have been reading the Book from before thee:  the Truthhath indeed come to thee from thy Lord: so be in no wise of those indoubt.
10/95 Nor be of those who reject the signs of Allah, or thou shalt beof those who perish.
10/96 Those against whom the word of thy Lord hath been verifiedwould not believe-
10/97 Even if every Sign was brought unto them,- until they see (forthemselves) the penalty grievous.
10/98 Why was there not a single township (among those We warned),which believed,- so its faith should have profited it,- except the peopleof Jonah? When they believed, We removed from them the penalty of ignominyin the life of the present, and permitted them to enjoy (their life) for awhile.
10/99 If it had been thy Lord's will, they would all have believed,-all who are on earth! wilt thou then compel mankind, against their will, tobelieve!
10/100 No soul can believe, except by the will of Allah, and He willplace doubt (or obscurity) on those who will not understand.
10/101 Say: "Behold all that is in the heavens and on earth"; butneither Signs nor Warners profit those who believe not.
10/102 Do they then expect (any thing) but (what happened in) thedays of the men who passed away before them? Say: "Wait ye then: for I,too, will wait with you."
10/103 In the end We deliver Our messengers and those who believe: Thusis it fitting on Our part that We should deliver those who believe!
10/104 Say: "O ye men! If ye are in doubt as to my religion,(behold!)  I worship not what ye worship, other than Allah! But I worship Allah- Who will take your souls (at death): I am commanded to be (in the ranks)of the Believers,
10/105 "And further (thus): 'set thy face towards religion with truepiety, and never in any wise be of the Unbelievers;
10/106 "'Nor call on any, other than Allah;- Such will neither profitthee nor hurt thee: if thou dost, behold! thou shalt certainly be of thosewho do wrong.'"
10/107 If Allah do touch thee with hurt, there is none can remove itbut He: if He do design some benefit for thee, there is none can keep backHis favour:  He causeth it to reach whomsoever of His servants He pleaseth.And He is the Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
10/108 Say: "O ye men! Now Truth hath reached you from your Lord!those who receive guidance, do so for the good of their own souls; thosewho stray, do so to their own loss: and I am not (set) over you to arrangeyour affairs."
10/109 Follow thou the inspiration sent unto thee, and be patient andconstant, till Allah do decide: for He is the best to decide.
