12/1 A.L.R. These are the symbols (or Verses) of the perspicuousBook.
12/2 We have sent it down as an Arabic Qur'an, in order that ye maylearn wisdom.
12/3 We do relate unto thee the most beautiful of stories, in thatWe reveal to thee this (portion of the) Qur'an: before this, thou too wasamong those who knew it not.
12/4 Behold! Joseph said to his father: "O my father! I did seeeleven stars and the sun and the moon: I saw them prostrate themselves tome!"
12/5 Said (the father): "My (dear) little son! relate not thyvision to thy brothers, lest they concoct a plot against thee: for Satan isto man an avowed enemy!
12/6 "Thus will thy Lord choose thee and teach thee theinterpretation of stories (and events) and perfect His favour to thee andto the posterity of Jacob - even as He perfected it to thy fathers Abrahamand Isaac aforetime! for Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom."
12/7 Verily in Joseph and his brethren are signs (or symbols) forseekers (after Truth).
12/8 They said: "Truly Joseph and his brother are loved more by ourfather than we: But we are a goodly body! really our father is obviouslywandering (in his mind)!
12/9 "Slay ye Joseph or cast him out to some (unknown) land, thatso the favour of your father may be given to you alone: (there will be timeenough) for you to be righteous after that!"
12/10 Said one of them: "Slay not Joseph, but if ye must dosomething, throw him down to the bottom of the well: he will be picked upby some caravan of travellers."
12/11 They said: "O our father! why dost thou not trust us withJoseph,- seeing we are indeed his sincere well-wishers?
12/12 "Send him with us tomorrow to enjoy himself and play, and weshall take every care of him."
12/13 (Jacob) said: "Really it saddens me that ye should take himaway: I fear lest the wolf should devour him while ye attend not to him."
12/14 They said: "If the wolf were to devour him while we are (solarge) a party, then should we indeed (first) have perished ourselves!"
12/15 So they did take him away, and they all agreed to throw himdown to the bottom of the well:  and We put into his heart (this Message):'Of a surety thou shalt (one day) tell them the truth of this their affairwhile they know (thee) not'
12/16 Then they came to their father in the early part of the night,weeping.
12/17 They said: "O our father! We went racing with one another, andleft Joseph with our things; and the wolf devoured him.... But thou wiltnever believe us even though we tell the truth."
12/18 They stained his shirt with false blood. He said: "Nay, butyour minds have made up a tale (that may pass) with you, (for me) patienceis most fitting: Against that which ye assert, it is Allah (alone) Whose helpcan be sought"..
12/19 Then there came a caravan of travellers: they sent theirwater-carrier (for water), and he let down his bucket (into the well)...Hesaid: "Ah there! Good news! Here is a (fine) young man!" So they concealedhim as a treasure! But Allah knoweth well all that they do!
12/20 The (Brethren) sold him for a miserable price, for a fewdirhams counted out: in such low estimation did they hold him!
12/21 The man in Egypt who bought him, said to his wife: "Make hisstay (among us) honourable:  may be he will bring us much good, or we shalladopt him as a son."  Thus did We establish Joseph in the land, that Wemight teach him the interpretation of stories (and events). And Allah hathfull power and control over His affairs; but most among mankind know itnot.
12/22 When Joseph attained His full manhood, We gave him power andknowledge: thus do We reward those who do right.
12/23 But she in whose house he was, sought to seduce him from his(true) self: she fastened the doors, and said: "Now come, thou (dear one)!"He said: "Allah forbid!  truly (thy husband) is my lord! he made my sojournagreeable!  truly to no good come those who do wrong!"
12/24 And (with passion) did she desire him, and he would havedesired her, but that he saw the evidence of his Lord: thus (did We order)that We might turn away from him (all) evil and shameful deeds: for he wasone of Our servants, sincere and purified.
12/25 So they both raced each other to the door, and she tore hisshirt from the back: they both found her lord near the door. She said:"What is the (fitting) punishment for one who formed an evil design againstthy wife, but prison or a grievous chastisement?"
12/26 He said: "It was she that sought to seduce me - from my (true)self." And one of her household saw (this) and bore witness, (thus):- "Ifit be that his shirt is rent from the front, then is her tale true, and heis a liar!
12/27 "But if it be that his shirt is torn from the back, then isshe the liar, and he is telling the truth!"
12/28 So when he saw his shirt,- that it was torn at the back,- (herhusband) said: "Behold!  It is a snare of you women! truly, mighty is yoursnare!
12/29 "O Joseph, pass this over! (O wife), ask forgiveness for thysin, for truly thou hast been at fault!"
12/30 Ladies said in the City: "The wife of the (great) 'Aziz isseeking to seduce her slave from his (true) self: Truly hath he inspiredher with violent love: we see she is evidently going astray."
12/31 When she heard of their malicious talk, she sent for them andprepared a banquet  for them: she gave each of them a knife: and she said(to Joseph), "Come out before them." When they saw him, they did extol him,and (in their amazement) cut their hands: they said, "Allah preserve us! nomortal is this! this is none other than a noble angel!"
12/32 She said: "There before you is the man about whom ye did blameme! I did seek to seduce him from his (true) self but he did firmly savehimself guiltless!....and now, if he doth not my bidding, he shallcertainly be cast into prison, and (what is more) be of the company of thevilest!"
12/33 He said: "O my Lord! the prison is more to my liking than thatto which they invite me: Unless Thou turn away their snare from me, Ishould (in my youthful folly) feel inclined towards them and join the ranksof the ignorant."
12/34 So his Lord hearkened to him (in his prayer), and turned awayfrom him their snare: Verily He heareth and knoweth (all things).
12/35 Then it occurred to the men, after they had seen the signs,(that it was best) to imprison him for a time.
12/36 Now with him there came into the prison two young men. Saidone of them: "I see myself (in a dream) pressing wine." said the other: "Isee myself (in a dream) carrying bread on my head, and birds are eating,thereof." "Tell us" (they said) "The truth and meaning thereof: for we seethou art one that doth good (to all)."
12/37 He said: "Before any food comes (in due course) to feed eitherof you, I will surely reveal to you the truth and meaning of this ere itbefall you: that is part of the (duty) which my Lord hath taught me. I have(I assure you) abandoned the ways of a people that believe not in Allah andthat (even) deny the Hereafter.
12/38 "And I follow the ways of my fathers,- Abraham, Isaac, andJacob; and never could we attribute any partners whatever to Allah: that(comes) of the grace of Allah to us and to mankind: yet most men are notgrateful.
12/39 "O my two companions of the prison! (I ask you): are manylords differing among themselves better, or the One Allah, Supreme andIrresistible?
12/40 "If not Him, ye worship nothing but names which ye havenamed,- ye and your fathers,- for which Allah hath sent down no authority:the command is for none but Allah: He hath commanded that ye worship  nonebut Him: that is the right religion, but most men understand not...
12/41 "O my two companions of the prison! As to one of you, he willpour out the wine for his lord to drink: as for the other, he will hangfrom the cross, and the birds will eat from off his head. (so) hath beendecreed that matter whereof ye twain do enquire"...
12/42 And of the two, to that one whom he consider about to besaved, he said: "Mention me to thy lord." But Satan made him forget tomention him to his lord: and (Joseph) lingered in prison a few (more)years.
12/43 The king (of Egypt) said: "I do see (in a vision) seven fatkine, whom seven lean ones devour, and seven green ears of corn, and seven(others) withered. O ye chiefs! Expound to me my vision if it be that yecan interpret visions."
12/44 They said: "A confused medley of dreams: and we are notskilled in the interpretation of dreams."
12/45 But the man who had been released, one of the two (who hadbeen in prison) and who now bethought him after (so long) a space of time,said: "I will tell you the truth of its interpretation: send ye me(therefore)."
12/46 "O Joseph!" (he said) "O man of truth! Expound to us (thedream) of seven fat kine whom seven lean ones devour, and of seven greenears of corn and (seven) others withered: that I may return to the people,and that they may understand."
12/47 (Joseph) said: "For seven years shall ye diligently sow as isyour wont: and the harvests that ye reap, ye shall leave them in the ear,-except a little, of which ye shall eat.
12/48 "Then will come after that (period) seven dreadful (years),which will devour what ye shall have laid by in advance for them,- (all)except a little which ye shall have (specially) guarded.
12/49 "Then will come after that (period) a year in which the peoplewill have abundant water, and in which they will press (wine and oil)."
12/50 So the king said: "Bring ye him unto me." But when themessenger came to him, (Joseph) said: "Go thou back to thy lord, and askhim, 'What is the state of mind of the ladies who cut their hands'? For myLord is certainly well aware of their snare."
12/51 (The king) said (to the ladies): "What was your affair when yedid seek to seduce Joseph from his (true) self?" The ladies said: "Allahpreserve us! no evil know we against him!" Said the 'Aziz's wife: "Now isthe truth manifest (to all): it was I who sought to seduce him from his(true) self: He is indeed of those who are (ever) true (and virtuous).
12/52 "This (say I), in order that He may know that I have neverbeen false to him in his absence,  and that Allah will never guide the snareof the false ones.
12/53 "Nor do I absolve my own self (of blame): the (human) soul iscertainly prone to evil, unless my Lord do bestow His Mercy: but surely myLord is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful."
12/54 So the king said: "Bring him unto me; I will take himspecially to serve about my own person." Therefore when he had spoken tohim, he said: "Be assured this day, thou art, before our own presence, withrank firmly established, and fidelity fully proved!
12/55 (Joseph) said: "Set me over the store-houses of the land: Iwill indeed guard them, as one that knows (their importance)."
12/56 Thus did We give established power to Joseph in the land, totake possession therein as, when, or where he pleased. We bestow of ourMercy on whom We please, and We suffer not, to be lost, the reward of thosewho do good.
12/57 But verily the reward of the Hereafter is the best, for thosewho believe, and are constant in righteousness.
12/58 Then came Joseph's brethren: they entered his presence, and heknew them, but they knew him not.
12/59 And when he had furnished them forth with provisions(suitable) for them, he said: "Bring unto me a brother ye have, of the samefather as yourselves, (but a different mother): see ye not that I pay outfull measure, and that I do provide the best hospitality?
12/60 "Now if ye bring him not to me, ye shall have no measure (ofcorn) from me, nor shall ye (even) come near me."
12/61 They said: "We shall certainly seek to get our wish about himfrom his father: Indeed we shall do it."
12/62 And (Joseph) told his servants to put their stock-in-trade(with which they had bartered) into their saddle-bags, so they should knowit only when they returned to their people, in order that they might comeback.
12/63 Now when they returned to their father, they said: "O ourfather! No more measure of grain shall we get (unless we take our brother):So send our brother with us, that we may get our measure; and we willindeed take every care of him."
12/64 He said: "Shall I trust you with him with any result otherthan when I trusted you with his brother aforetime? But Allah is the best totake care (of him), and He is the Most Merciful of those who show mercy!"
12/65 Then when they opened their baggage, they found theirstock-in-trade had been returned to them. They said: "O our father! What(more) can we desire? this our stock-in-trade has been returned to us: sowe shall get (more) food for our family; We shall take care of our brother;and add (at the same time) a full camel's load (of grain to ourprovisions). This is but a small quantity.
12/66 (Jacob) said: "Never will I send him with you until ye swear asolemn oath to me, in Allah's name, that ye will be sure to bring him back tome unless ye are yourselves hemmed in (and made powerless). And when theyhad sworn their solemn oath, he said: "Over all that we say, be Allah thewitness and guardian!"
12/67 Further he said: "O my sons! enter not all by one gate: enterye by different gates. Not that I can profit you aught against Allah (with myadvice): None can command except Allah:  On Him do I put my trust: and letall that trust put their trust on Him."
12/68 And when they entered in the manner their father had enjoined,it did not profit them in the least against (the plan of) Allah: It was but anecessity of Jacob's soul, which he discharged. For he was, by ourinstruction, full of knowledge (and experience): but most men know not.
12/69 Now when they came into Joseph's presence, he received his(full) brother to stay with him. He said (to him): "Behold! I am thy (own)brother; so grieve not at aught of their doings."
12/70 At length when he had furnished them forth with provisions(suitable) for them, he put the drinking cup into his brother's saddle-bag.Then shouted out a crier: "O ye (in) the caravan! behold! ye are thieves,without doubt!"
12/71 They said, turning towards them: "What is it that ye miss?"
12/72 They said: "We miss the great beaker of the king; for him whoproduces it, is (the reward of) a camel load; I will be bound by it."
12/73 (The brothers) said: "By Allah! well ye know that we came not tomake mischief in the land, and we are no thieves!"
12/74 (The Egyptians) said: "What then shall be the penalty of this,if ye are (proved) to have lied?"
12/75 They said: "The penalty should be that he in whose saddle-bagit is found, should be held (as bondman) to atone for the (crime). Thus itis we punish the wrong-doers!"
12/76 So he began (the search) with their baggage, before (he cameto) the baggage of his brother: at length he brought it out of hisbrother's baggage. Thus did We plan for Joseph. He could not take hisbrother by the law of the king except that Allah  willed it (so). We raise todegrees (of wisdom) whom We please: but over all endued with knowledge isone, the All-Knowing.
12/77 They said: "If he steals, there was a brother of his who didsteal before (him)." But these things did Joseph keep locked in his heart,revealing not the secrets to them. He (simply) said (to himself):  "Ye arethe worse situated; and Allah knoweth best the truth of what ye assert!"
12/78 They said: "O exalted one! Behold! he has a father, aged andvenerable, (who will grieve for him); so take one of us in his place; forwe see that thou art (gracious) in doing good."
12/79 He said: "Allah forbid that we take other than him with whom wefound our property: indeed (if we did so), we should be acting wrongfully.
12/80 Now when they saw no hope of his (yielding), they held aconference in private. The leader among them said: "Know ye not that yourfather did take an oath from you in Allah's name, and how, before this, yedid fail in your duty with Joseph? Therefore will I not leave this landuntil my father permits me, or Allah commands me; and He is the best tocommand.
12/81 "Turn ye back to your father, and say, 'O our father! behold!thy son committed theft! we bear witness only to what we know, and we couldnot well guard against the unseen!
12/82 "'Ask at the town where we have been and the caravan in whichwe returned, and (you will find) we are indeed telling the truth.'"
12/83 Jacob said: "Nay, but ye have yourselves contrived a story(good enough) for you. So patience is most fitting (for me). Maybe Allah willbring them (back) all to me (in the end). For He is indeed full ofknowledge and wisdom."
12/84 And he turned away from them, and said: "How great is my grieffor Joseph!"  And his eyes became white with sorrow, and he fell intosilent melancholy.
12/85 They said: "By Allah! (never) wilt thou cease to remember Josephuntil thou reach the last extremity of illness, or until thou die!"
12/86 He said: "I only complain of my distraction and anguish toAllah, and I know from Allah that which ye know not...
12/87 "O my sons! go ye and enquire about Joseph and his brother,and never give up hope of Allah's Soothing Mercy: truly no one despairs ofAllah's Soothing Mercy, except those who have no faith."
12/88 Then, when they came (back) into (Joseph's) presence theysaid: "O exalted one! distress has seized us and our family: we have (now)brought but scanty capital: so pay us full measure, (we pray thee), andtreat it as charity to us: for Allah doth reward the charitable."
12/89 He said: "Know ye how ye dealt with Joseph and his brother,not knowing (what ye were doing)?"
12/90 They said: "Art thou indeed Joseph?" He said, "I am Joseph,and this is my brother: Allah has indeed been gracious to us (all): behold,he that is righteous and patient,- never will Allah suffer the reward to belost, of those who do right."
12/91 They said: "By Allah! indeed has Allah preferred thee above us,and we certainly have been guilty of sin!"
12/92 He said: "This day let no reproach be (cast) on you: Allah willforgive you, and He is the Most Merciful of those who show mercy!
12/93 "Go with this my shirt, and cast it over the face of myfather: he will come to see (clearly). Then come ye (here) to me togetherwith all your family."
12/94 When the caravan left (Egypt), their father said: "I do indeedscent the presence of Joseph: Nay, think me not a dotard."
12/95 They said: "By Allah! truly thou art in thine old wanderingmind."
12/96 Then when the bearer of the good news came, He cast (theshirt) over his face, and he forthwith regained clear sight. He said: "DidI not say to you, 'I know from Allah that which ye know not?'"
12/97 They said: "O our father! ask for us forgiveness for oursins, for we were truly at fault."
12/98 He said: "Soon will I ask my Lord for forgiveness for you: forhe is indeed Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful."
12/99 Then when they entered the presence of Joseph, he provided ahome for his parents with himself, and said: "Enter ye Egypt (all) insafety if it please Allah."
12/100 And he raised his parents high on the throne (of dignity), andthey fell down in prostration, (all) before him. He said: "O my father!this is the fulfilment of my vision of old! Allah hath made it come true! Hewas indeed good to me when He took me out of prison and brought you (allhere) out of the desert, (even) after Satan had sown enmity between me andmy brothers. Verily my Lord understandeth best the mysteries of all that Heplanneth to do, for verily He is full of knowledge and wisdom.
12/101 "O my Lord! Thou hast indeed bestowed on me some power, andtaught me something of the interpretation of dreams and events,- O ThouCreator of the heavens and the earth! Thou art my Protector in this worldand in the Hereafter. Take Thou my soul (at death) as one submitting to Thywill (as a Muslim), and unite me with the righteous."
12/102 Such is one of the stories of what happened unseen, which Wereveal by inspiration unto thee; nor wast thou (present) with them thenwhen they concerted their plans together in the process of weaving theirplots.
12/103 Yet no faith will the greater part of mankind have, howeverardently thou dost desire it.
12/104 And no reward dost thou ask of them for this: it is no lessthan a message for all creatures.
12/105 And how many Signs in the heavens and the earth do they passby? Yet they turn (their faces) away from them!
12/106 And most of them believe not in Allah without associating (otheras partners) with Him!
12/107 Do they then feel secure from the coming against them of thecovering veil of the wrath of Allah,- or of the coming against them of the(final) Hour all of a sudden while they perceive not?
12/108 Say thou: "This is my way: I do invite unto Allah,- on evidenceclear as the seeing with one's eyes,- I and whoever follows me. Glory toAllah! and never will I join gods with Allah!"
12/109 Nor did We send before thee (as messengers) any but men, whom wedid inspire,- (men) living in human  habitations. Do they not travelthrough the earth, and see what was the end of those before them? But thehome of the hereafter is best, for those who do right. Will ye not thenunderstand?
12/110 (Respite will be granted) until, when the messengers give uphope (of their people) and (come to) think that they were treated as liars,there reaches them Our help, and those whom We will are delivered intosafety. But never will be warded off our punishment from those who are insin.
12/111 There is, in their stories, instruction for men endued withunderstanding. It is not a tale invented, but a confirmation of what wentbefore it,- a detailed exposition of all things, and a guide and a mercy toany such as believe.
