43/1 Ha-Mim
43/2 By the Book that makes things clear,-
43/3 We have made it a Qur'an in Arabic, that ye may be able tounderstand (and learn wisdom).
43/4 And verily, it is in the Mother of the Book, in Our Presence,high (in dignity), full of wisdom.
43/5 Shall We then take away the Message from you and repel (you),for that ye are a people transgressing beyond bounds?
43/6 But how many were the prophets We sent amongst the peoples ofold?
43/7 And never came there a prophet to them but they mocked him.
43/8 So We destroyed (them)- stronger in power than these;- and(thus) has passed on the Parable of the peoples of old.
43/9 If thou wert to question them, 'Who created the heavens andthe earth?' They would be sure to reply, 'they were created by (Him), theExalted in Power, Full of Knowledge';-
43/10 (Yea, the same that) has made for you the earth (like acarpet) spread out, and has made for you roads (and channels) therein, inorder that ye may find guidance (on the way);
43/11 That sends down (from time to time) rain from the sky in duemeasure;- and We raise to life therewith a land that is dead; even so willye be raised (from the dead);-
43/12 That has created pairs in all things, and has made for youships and cattle on which ye ride,
43/13 In order that ye may sit firm and square on their backs, andwhen so seated, ye may celebrate the (kind) favour of your Lord, and say,"Glory to Him Who has subjected these to our (use), for we could never haveaccomplished  this (by ourselves),
43/14 "And to our Lord, surely, must we turn back!"
43/15 Yet they attribute to some of His servants a share with Him(in his godhead)! truly is man a blasphemous ingrate avowed!
43/16 What! has He taken daughters out of what He himself creates,and granted to you sons for choice?
43/17 When news is brought to one of them of (the birth of) what hesets up as a likeness to (Allah) Most Gracious, his face darkens, and he isfilled with inward grief!
43/18 Is then one brought up among trinkets, and unable to give aclear account in a dispute (to be associated with Allah)?
43/19 And they make into females angels who themselves serve Allah.Did they witness their creation? Their evidence will be recorded, and theywill be called to account!
43/20 ("Ah!") they say, "If it had been the will of (Allah) MostGracious, we should not have worshipped such (deities)!" Of that they haveno knowledge! they do nothing but lie!
43/21 What! have We given them a Book before this, to which they areholding fast?
43/22 Nay! they say: "We found our fathers following a certainreligion, and we do guide ourselves by their footsteps."
43/23 Just in the same way, whenever We sent a Warner before thee toany people, the wealthy ones among them said: "We found our fathersfollowing a certain religion, and we will certainly follow in theirfootsteps."
43/24 He said: "What! Even if I brought you better guidance thanthat which ye found your fathers following?" They said: "For us, we denythat ye (prophets) are sent (on a mission at all)."
43/25 So We exacted retribution from them: now see what was the endof those who rejected (Truth)!
43/26 Behold! Abraham said to his father and his people: "I doindeed clear myself of what ye worship:
43/27 "(I worship) only Him Who made me, and He will certainly guideme."
43/28 And he left it as a Word to endure among those who came afterhim, that they may turn back (to Allah).
43/29 Yea, I have given the good things of this life to these (men)and their fathers, until the Truth has come to them, and a messenger makingthings clear.
43/30 But when the Truth came to them, they said: "This is sorcery,and we do reject it."
43/31 Also, they say: "Why is not this Qur'an sent down to someleading man in either of the two (chief) cities?"
43/32 Is it they who would portion out the Mercy of thy Lord? It isWe Who portion out between them their livelihood in the life of this world:and We raise some of them above others in ranks, so that some may commandwork from others. But the Mercy of thy Lord is better than the (wealth)which they amass.
43/33 And were it not that (all) men might become of one (evil) wayof life, We would provide, for everyone that blasphemes against (Allah) MostGracious, silver roofs for their houses and (silver) stair-ways on which togo up,
43/34 And (silver) doors to their houses, and thrones (of silver) onwhich they could recline,
43/35 And also adornments of gold. But all this were nothing butconveniences of the present life: The Hereafter, in the sight of thy Lordis for the Righteous.
43/36 If anyone withdraws himself from remembrance of (Allah) MostGracious, We appoint for him an evil one, to be an intimate companion tohim.
43/37 Such (evil ones) really hinder them from the Path, but theythink that they are being guided aright!
43/38 At length, when (such a one) comes to Us, he says (to his evilcompanion): "Would that between me and thee were the distance of East andWest!" Ah! evil is the companion (indeed)!
43/39 When ye have done wrong, it will avail you nothing, that Day,that ye shall be partners in Punishment!
43/40 Canst thou then make the deaf to hear, or give direction tothe blind or to such as (wander) in manifest error?
43/41 Even if We take thee away, We shall be sure to exactretribution from them,
43/42 Or We shall show thee that (accomplished) which We havepromised them: for verily We shall prevail over them.
43/43 So hold thou fast to the Revelation sent down to thee; verilythou art on a Straight Way.
43/44 The (Qur'an) is indeed the message, for thee and for thypeople; and soon shall ye (all) be brought to account.
43/45 And question thou our messengers whom We sent before thee; didWe appoint any deities other than (Allah) Most Gracious, to be worshipped?
43/46 We did send Moses aforetime, with Our Signs, to Pharaoh andhis Chiefs: He said, "I am a messenger of the Lord of the Worlds."
43/47 But when he came to them with Our Signs, behold they ridiculedthem.
43/48 We showed them Sign after Sign, each greater than its fellow,and We seized them with Punishment, in order that they might turn (to Us).
43/49 And they said, "O thou sorcerer! Invoke thy Lord for usaccording to His covenant with thee; for we shall truly accept guidance."
43/50 But when We removed the Penalty from them, behold, they broketheir word.
43/51 And Pharaoh proclaimed among his people, saying: "O my people!Does not the dominion of Egypt belong to me, (witness) these streamsflowing underneath my (palace)? What! see ye not then?
43/52 "Am I not better than this (Moses), who is a contemptiblewretch and can scarcely express himself clearly?
43/53 "Then why are not gold bracelets bestowed on him, or (why)come (not) with him angels accompanying him in procession?"
43/54 Thus did he make fools of his people, and they obeyed him:truly were they a people rebellious (against Allah).
43/55 When at length they provoked Us, We exacted retribution fromthem, and We drowned them all.
43/56 And We made them (a people) of the Past and an Example tolater ages.
43/57 When (Jesus) the son of Mary is held up as an example, behold,thy people raise a clamour thereat (in ridicule)!
43/58 And they say, "Are our gods best, or he?" This they set forthto thee, only by way of disputation: yea, they are a contentious people.
43/59 He was no more than a servant: We granted Our favour to him,and We made him an example to the Children of Israel.
43/60 And if it were Our Will, We could make angels from amongstyou, succeeding each other on the earth.
43/61 And (Jesus) shall be a Sign (for the coming of) the Hour (ofJudgment): therefore have no doubt about the (Hour), but follow ye Me: thisis a Straight Way.
43/62 Let not the Evil One hinder you: for he is to you an enemyavowed.
43/63 When Jesus came with Clear Signs, he said: "Now have I come toyou with Wisdom, and in order to make clear to you some of the (points) onwhich ye dispute: therefore fear Allah and obey me.
43/64 "For Allah, He is my Lord and your Lord: so worship ye Him: thisis a Straight Way."
43/65 But sects from among themselves fell into disagreement: thenwoe to the wrong-doers, from the Penalty of a Grievous Day!
43/66 Do they only wait for the Hour - that it should come on themall of a sudden, while they perceive not?
43/67 Friends on that day will be foes, one to another,- except theRighteous.
43/68 My devotees! no fear shall be on you that Day, nor shall yegrieve,-
43/69 (Being) those who have believed in Our Signs and bowed (theirwills to Ours) in Islam.
43/70 Enter ye the Garden, ye and your wives, in (beauty and)rejoicing.
43/71 To them will be passed round, dishes and goblets of gold:there will be there all that the souls could desire, all that their ayescould delight in: and ye shall abide therein (for eye).
43/72 Such will be the Garden of which ye are made heirs for your(good) deeds (in life).
43/73 Ye shall have therein abundance of fruit, from which ye shallhave satisfaction.
43/74 The sinners will be in the Punishment of Hell, to dwelltherein (for aye):
43/75 Nowise will the (Punishment) be lightened for them, and indespair will they be there overwhelmed.
43/76 Nowise shall We be unjust to them: but it is they who havebeen unjust themselves.
43/77 They will cry: "O Malik! would that thy Lord put an end tous!" He will say, "Nay, but ye shall abide!"
43/78 Verily We have brought the Truth to you: but most of you havea hatred for Truth.
43/79 What! have they settled some plan (among themselves)? But itis We Who settle things.
43/80 Or do they think that We hear not their secrets and theirprivate counsels? Indeed (We do), and Our messengers are by them, torecord.
43/81 Say: "If (Allah) Most Gracious had a son, I would be the firstto worship."
43/82 Glory to the Lord of the heavens and the earth, the Lord ofthe Throne (of Authority)! (He is free) from the things they attribute (tohim)!
43/83 So leave them to babble and play (with vanities) until theymeet that Day of theirs, which they have been promised.
43/84 It is He Who is Allah in heaven and Allah on earth; and He is fullof Wisdom and Knowledge.
43/85 And blessed is He to Whom belongs the dominion of the heavensand the earth, and all between them: with Him is the Knowledge of the Hour(of Judgment): and to Him shall ye be brought back.
43/86 And those whom they invoke besides Allah have no power ofintercession;- only he who bears witness to the Truth, and they know(him).
43/87 If thou ask them, who created them, they will certainly say,Allah: How then are they deluded away (from the Truth)?
43/88 (Allah has knowledge) of the (Prophet's) cry, "O my Lord! Trulythese are people who will not believe!"
43/89 But turn away from them, and say "Peace!" But soon shall theyknow!
