39/1 The revelation of this Book is from Allah, the Exalted in Power,full of Wisdom.
39/2 Verily it is We Who have revealed the Book to thee in Truth:so serve Allah, offering Him sincere devotion.
39/3 Is it not to Allah that sincere devotion is due? But those whotake for protectors other than Allah (say): "We only serve them in order thatthey may bring us nearer to Allah." Truly Allah will judge between them in thatwherein they differ. But Allah guides not such as are false and ungrateful.
39/4 Had Allah wished to take to Himself a son, He could have chosenwhom He pleased out of those whom He doth create: but Glory be to Him! (Heis above such things.) He is Allah, the One, the Irresistible.
39/5 He created the heavens and the earth in true (proportions): Hemakes the Night overlap the Day, and the Day overlap the Night: He hassubjected the sun and the moon (to His law): Each one follows a course fora time appointed. Is not He the Exalted in Power - He Who forgives againand again?
39/6 He created you (all) from a single person: then created, oflike nature, his mate; and he sent down for you eight head of cattle inpairs: He makes you, in the wombs of your mothers, in stages, one afteranother, in three veils of darkness. such is Allah, your Lord and Cherisher:to Him belongs (all) dominion. There is no god but He: then how are yeturned away (from your true Centre)?
39/7 If ye reject (Allah), Truly Allah hath no need of you; but Heliketh not ingratitude from His servants: if ye are grateful, He is pleasedwith you. No bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another. In the end,to your Lord is your Return, when He will tell you the truth of all that yedid (in this life). for He knoweth well all that is in (men's) hearts.
39/8 When some trouble toucheth man, he crieth unto his Lord,turning to Him in repentance: but when He bestoweth a favour upon him asfrom Himself, (man) doth forget what he cried and prayed for before, and hedoth set up rivals unto Allah, thus misleading others from Allah's Path. Say,"Enjoy thy blasphemy for a little while: verily thou art (one) of theCompanions of the Fire!"
39/9 Is one who worships devoutly during the hour of the nightprostrating himself or standing (in adoration), who takes heed of theHereafter, and who places his hope in the Mercy of his Lord - (like one whodoes not)? Say: "Are those equal, those who know and those who do not know?It is those who are endued with understanding that receive admonition.
39/10 Say: "O ye my servants who believe! Fear your Lord, good is(the reward) for those who do good in this world. Spacious is Allah's earth!those who patiently persevere will truly receive a reward withoutmeasure!"
39/11 Say: "Verily, I am commanded to serve Allah with sinceredevotion;
39/12 "And I am commanded to be the first of those who bow to Allah inIslam."
39/13 Say: "I would, if I disobeyed my Lord, indeed have fear of thePenalty of a Mighty Day."
39/14 Say: "It is Allah I serve, with my sincere (and exclusive)devotion:
39/15 "Serve ye what ye will besides him." Say: "Truly, those inloss are those who lose their own souls and their People on the Day ofJudgment: Ah! that is indeed the (real and) evident Loss!
39/16 They shall have Layers of Fire above them, and Layers (ofFire) below them: with this doth Allah warn off his servants: "O My Servants!then fear ye Me!"
39/17 Those who eschew Evil,- and fall not into its worship,- andturn to Allah (in repentance),- for them is Good News: so announce the GoodNews to My Servants,-
39/18 Those who listen to the Word, and follow the best (meaning) init: those are the ones whom Allah has guided, and those are the ones enduedwith understanding.
39/19 Is, then, one against whom the decree of Punishment is justlydue (equal to one who eschews Evil)? Wouldst thou, then, deliver one (whois) in the Fire?
39/20 But it is for those who fear their Lord. That lofty mansions,one above another, have been built: beneath them flow rivers (of delight):(such is) the Promise of Allah: never doth Allah fail in (His) promise.
39/21 Seest thou not that Allah sends down rain from the sky, andleads it through springs in the earth? Then He causes to grow, therewith,produce of various colours: then it withers; thou wilt see it grow yellow;then He makes it dry up and crumble away. Truly, in this, is a Message ofremembrance to men of understanding.
39/22 Is one whose heart Allah has opened to Islam, so that he hasreceived Enlightenment from Allah, (no better than one hard-hearted)? Woe tothose whose hearts are hardened against celebrating the praises of Allah!they are manifestly wandering (in error)!
39/23 Allah has revealed (from time to time) the most beautifulMessage in the form of a Book, consistent with itself, (yet) repeating (itsteaching in various aspects): the skins of those who fear their Lordtremble thereat; then their skins and their hearts do soften to thecelebration of Allah's praises. Such is the guidance of Allah: He guidestherewith whom He pleases, but such as Allah leaves to stray, can have noneto guide.
39/24 Is, then, one who has to fear the brunt of the Penalty on theDay of Judgment (and receive it) on his face, (like one guarded therefrom)?It will be said to the wrong-doers: "Taste ye (the fruits of) what yeearned!"
39/25 Those before them (also) rejected (revelation), and so thePunishment came to them from directions they did not perceive.
39/26 So Allah gave them a taste of humiliation in the present life,but greater is the punishment of the Hereafter, if they only knew!
39/27 We have put forth for men, in this Qur'an every kind ofParable, in order that they may receive admonition.
39/28 (It is) a Qur'an in Arabic, without any crookedness (therein):in order that they may guard against Evil.
39/29 Allah puts forth a Parable a man belonging to many partners atvariance with each other, and a man belonging entirely to one master: arethose two equal in comparison? Praise be to Allah! but most of them have noknowledge.
39/30 Truly thou wilt die (one day), and truly they (too) will die(one day).
39/31 In the end will ye (all), on the Day of Judgment, settle yourdisputes in the presence of your Lord.
39/32 Who, then, doth more wrong than one who utters a lieconcerning Allah, and rejects the Truth when it comes to him; is there not inHell an abode for blasphemers?
39/33 And he who brings the Truth and he who confirms (and supports)it - such are the men who do right.
39/34 They shall have all that they wish for, in the presence oftheir Lord: such is the reward of those who do good:
39/35 So that Allah will turn off from them (even) the worst in theirdeeds and give them their reward according to the best of what they havedone.
39/36 Is not Allah enough for his Servant? But they try to frightenthee with other (gods) besides Him! for such as Allah leaves to stray, therecan be no guide.
39/37 And such as Allah doth guide there can be none to lead astray.Is not Allah Exalted in Power, (Able  to enforce His Will), Lord ofRetribution?
39/38 If indeed thou ask them who it is that created the heavens andthe earth, they would be sure to say, "Allah". Say: "See ye then? the thingsthat ye invoke besides Allah,- can they, if Allah wills some Penalty for me,remove His Penalty?- Or if He wills some Grace for me, can they keep backhis Grace?" Say: "Sufficient is Allah for me! In Him trust those who puttheir trust."
39/39 Say: "O my People! Do whatever ye can: I will do (my part):but soon will ye know-
39/40 "Who it is to whom comes a Penalty of ignominy, and on whomdescends a Penalty that abides."
39/41 Verily We have revealed the Book to thee in Truth, for(instructing) mankind. He, then, that receives guidance benefits his ownsoul: but he that strays injures his own soul. Nor art thou set over themto dispose of their affairs.
39/42 It is Allah that takes the souls (of men) at death; and thosethat die not (He takes) during their sleep: those on whom He has passed thedecree of death, He keeps back (from returning to life), but the rest Hesends (to their bodies) for a term appointed verily in this are Signs forthose who reflect.
39/43 What! Do they take for intercessors others besides Allah? Say:"Even if they have no power whatever and no intelligence?"
39/44 Say: "To Allah belongs exclusively (the right to grant)intercession: to Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth: Inthe End, it is to Him that ye shall be brought back."
39/45 When Allah, the One and Only, is mentioned, the hearts of thosewho believe not in the Hereafter are filled with disgust and horror; butwhen (gods) other than He are mentioned, behold, they are filled with joy!
39/46 Say: "O Allah! Creator of the heavens and the earth! Knower ofall that is hidden and open! it is Thou that wilt judge between ThyServants in those matters about which they have differed."
39/47 Even if the wrong-doers had all that there is on earth, and asmuch more, (in vain) would they offer it for ransom from the pain of thePenalty on the Day of Judgment: but something will confront them from Allah,which they could never have counted upon!
39/48 For the evils of their Deeds will confront them, and they willbe (completely) encircled by that which they used to mock at!
39/49 Now, when trouble touches man, he cries to Us: But when Webestow a favour upon him as from Ourselves, he says, "This has been givento me because of a certain knowledge (I have)!"  Nay, but this is but atrial, but most of them understand not!
39/50 Thus did the (generations) before them say! But all that theydid was of no profit to them.
39/51 Nay, the evil results of their Deeds overtook them. And thewrong-doers of this (generation)- the evil results of their Deeds will soonovertake them (too), and they will never be able to frustrate (Our Plan)!
39/52 Know they not that Allah enlarges the provision or restricts it,for any He pleases? Verily, in this are Signs for those who believe!
39/53 Say: "O my Servants who have transgressed against their souls! Despair not of the Mercy of Allah: for Allah forgives all sins: for He isOft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.
39/54 "Turn ye to our Lord (in repentance) and bow to His (Will),before the Penalty comes on you: after that ye shall not be helped.
39/55 "And follow the best of (the courses) revealed to you fromyour Lord, before the Penalty comes on you - of a sudden while ye perceivenot!-
39/56 "Lest the soul should (then) say: 'Ah! Woe is me!- In that Ineglected (my duty) towards Allah, and was but among those who mocked!'-
39/57 "Or (lest) it should say: 'If only Allah had guided me, I shouldcertainly have been among the righteous!'-
39/58 "Or (lest) it should say when it (actually) sees the penalty:'If only I had another chance, I should certainly be among those who dogood!'
39/59 "(The reply will be:) 'Nay, but there came to thee my Signs,and thou didst reject them: thou wast Haughty, and became one of those whoreject faith!'"
39/60 On the Day of Judgment wilt thou see those who told liesagainst Allah;- their faces will be turned black; Is there not in Hell anabode for the Haughty?
39/61 But Allah will deliver the righteous to their place ofsalvation: no evil shall touch them, nor shall they grieve.
39/62 Allah is the Creator of all things, and He is the Guardian andDisposer of all affairs.
39/63 To Him belong the keys of the heavens and the earth: and thosewho reject the Signs of Allah,- it is they who will be in loss.
39/64 Say: "Is it some one other than Allah that ye order me toworship, O ye ignorant ones?"
39/65 But it has already been revealed to thee,- as it was to thosebefore thee,- "If thou wert to join (gods with Allah), truly fruitless willbe thy work (in life), and thou wilt surely be in the ranks of those wholose (all spiritual good)".
39/66 Nay, but worship Allah, and be of those who give thanks.
39/67 No just estimate have they made of Allah, such as is due to Him:On the Day of Judgment the whole of the earth will be but His handful, andthe heavens will be rolled up in His right hand: Glory to Him! High is Heabove the Partners they attribute to Him!
39/68 The Trumpet will (just) be sounded, when all that are in theheavens and on earth will swoon, except such as it will please Allah (toexempt). Then will a second one be sounded, when, behold, they will bestanding and looking on!
39/69 And the Earth will shine with the Glory of its Lord: theRecord (of Deeds) will be placed (open); the prophets and the witnesseswill be brought forward and a just decision pronounced between them; andthey will not be wronged (in the least).
39/70 And to every soul will be paid in full (the fruit) of itsDeeds; and (Allah) knoweth best all that they do.
39/71 The Unbelievers will be led to Hell in crowd: until, when theyarrive, there, its gates will be opened. And its keepers will say, "Did notmessengers come to you from among yourselves, rehearsing to you the Signs ofyour Lord, and warning you of the Meeting of This Day  of yours?" Theanswer will be: "True: but the Decree of Punishment has been proved trueagainst the Unbelievers!"
39/72 (To them) will be said: "Enter ye the gates of Hell, to dwelltherein: and evil is (this) Abode of the Arrogant!"
39/73 And those who feared their Lord will be led to the Garden incrowds: until behold, they arrive there; its gates will be opened;  and itskeepers will say: "Peace be upon you! well have ye done! enter ye here, todwell therein."
39/74 They will say: "Praise be to Allah, Who has truly fulfilled HisPromise to us, and has given us (this) land in heritage: We can dwell inthe Garden as we will: how excellent a reward for those who work(righteousness)!"
39/75 And thou wilt see the angels surrounding the Throne (Divine)on all sides, singing Glory and Praise to their Lord. The Decision betweenthem (at Judgment) will be in (perfect) justice, and the cry (on all sides)will be, "Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds!"
