41/1 H. M.
41/2 A revelation from the Most Gracious, Most Merciful.
41/3 A scripture whose verses provide the complete details, in an Arabic Quran, for people who know.
41/4 A bearer of good news, as well as a warner. However, most of them turn away; they do not hear.
41/5 They said, "Our minds are made up, our ears are deaf to your message, and a barrier separates us from you. Do what you want, and so will we."
41/6 Say, "I am no more than a human being like you, who has been inspired that your god is one god. You shall be devoted to Him, and ask His forgiveness. Woe to the idol worshipers.
41/7 "Who do not give the obligatory charity (Zakat), and with regard to the Hereafter, they are disbelievers."
41/8 As for those who believe and lead a righteous life, they receive a well deserved recompense.
41/9 Say, "You disbelieve in the One who created the earth in two days, and you set up idols to rank with Him, though He is Lord of the universe."
41/10 He placed on it stabilizers (mountains), made it productive, and He calculated its provisions in four days, to satisfy the needs of all its inhabitants.
41/11 Then He turned to the sky, when it was still gas, and said to it, and to the earth, "Come into existence, willingly or unwillingly." They said, "We come willingly."
41/12 Thus, He completed the seven universes in two days, and set up the laws for every universe. And we adorned the lowest universe with lamps, and placed guards around it. Such is the design of the Almighty, the Omniscient.
41/13 If they turn away, then say, "I am warning you of a disaster like the disaster that annihilated 'Ad and Thamud."
41/14 Their messengers went to them, as well as before them and after them, saying, "You shall not worship except GOD." They said, "Had our Lord willed, He could have sent angels. We are disbelievers in what you say."
41/15 As for 'Ad, they turned arrogant on earth, opposed the truth, and said, "Who is more powerful than we?" Did they not realize that GOD, who created them, is more powerful than they? They were unappreciative of our revelations.
41/16 Consequently, we sent upon them violent wind, for a few miserable days. We thus afflicted them with humiliating retribution in this life, and the retribution of the Hereafter is more humiliating; they can never win.
41/17 As for Thamud, we provided them with guidance, but they preferred blindness over guidance. Consequently, the disastrous and shameful retribution annihilated them, because of what they earned.
41/18 We always save those who believe and lead a righteous life.
41/19 The day will come when the enemies of GOD will be summoned to the hellfire, forcibly.
41/20 Once they get there, their own hearing, eyes, and skins will bear witness to everything they had done.
41/21 They will say to their skins, "Why did you bear witness against us?" They will reply, "GOD made us speak up; He is the One who causes everything to speak. He is the One who created you the first time, and now you have been returned to Him."
41/22 There is no way you can hide from your own hearing, your eyes, or your skins. In fact, you thought that GOD was unaware of much of what you do.
41/23 This kind of thinking about your Lord will cause you to fall, and then you become losers.
41/24 If they continue the way they are, Hell will be their destiny, and if they make up excuses, they will not be excused.
41/25 We assign to them companions who adorn everything they do in their eyes. Thus, they end up incurring the same fate as the previous communities of jinns and humans, who were also losers.
41/26 Those who disbelieved said, "Do not listen to this Quran and distort it, that you may win."
41/27 We will certainly afflict these disbelievers with a severe retribution. We will certainly requite them for their evil works.
41/28 Such is the requital that awaits GOD's enemies. Hell will be their eternal abode; a just requital for discarding our revelations.
41/29 Those who disbelieved will say, "Our Lord, show us those among the two kinds-jinns and humans-who misled us, so we can trample them under our feet, and render them the lowliest."
41/30 Those who proclaim: "Our Lord is GOD," then lead a righteous life, the angels descend upon them: "You shall have no fear, nor shall you grieve. Rejoice in the good news that Paradise has been reserved for you.
41/31 "We are your allies in this life, and in the Hereafter. You will have in it anything you wish for; you will have anything you want.
41/32 "(Such is your) ultimate abode, from a Forgiver, Most Merciful."
41/33 Who can utter better words than one who invites to GOD, works righteousness, and says, "I am one of the submitters"?
41/34 Not equal is the good response and the bad response. You shall resort to the nicest possible response. Thus, the one who used to be your enemy, may become your best friend.
41/35 None can attain this except those who steadfastly persevere. None can attain this except those who are extremely fortunate.
41/36 When the devil whispers an idea to you, you shall seek refuge in GOD. He is the Hearer, the Omniscient.
41/37 Among His proofs are the night and the day, and the sun and the moon. Do not prostrate before the sun, nor the moon; you shall fall prostrate before the GOD who created them, if you truly worship Him alone.
41/38 If they are too arrogant to do this, then those at your Lord glorify Him night and day, without ever tiring.
41/39 Among His proofs is that you see the land still, then, as soon as we shower it with water, it vibrates with life. Surely, the One who revived it can revive the dead. He is Omnipotent.
41/40 Surely, those who distort our revelations are not hidden from us. Is one who gets thrown into Hell better, or one who comes secure on the Day of Resurrection? Do whatever you wish; He is Seer of everything you do.
41/41 Those who have rejected the Quran's proof when it came to them, have also rejected an Honorable book.
41/42 No falsehood could enter it, in the past or in the future; a revelation from a Most Wise, Praiseworthy.
41/43 What is said to you is precisely what was said to the previous messengers. Your Lord possesses forgiveness, and He also possesses painful retribution.
41/44 If we made it a non-Arabic Quran they would have said, "Why did it come down in that language?" Whether it is Arabic or non-Arabic, say, "For those who believe, it is a guide and healing. As for those who disbelieve, they will be deaf and blind to it, as if they are being addressed from faraway."
41/45 We have given Moses the scripture and it was also disputed. If it were not for your Lord's predetermined decision, they would have been judged immediately. Indeed, they harbor too many doubts.
41/46 Whoever works righteousness does so for his own good, and whoever works evil does so to his own detriment. Your Lord is never unjust towards the people.
41/47 With Him is the knowledge about the Hour (end of the world). No fruits emerge from their sheaths, nor does any female conceive or give birth, without His knowledge. The day will come when He asks them: "Where are those idols that you set up beside Me?" They will say, "We proclaim to You that none of us bears witness to that."
41/48 The idols they had idolized will disown them, and they will realize that there will be no escape.
41/49 The human being never tires of imploring for good things. And when adversity befalls him, he turns despondent, desperate.
41/50 And when we bless him after suffering some adversity, he says, "This belongs to me. I do not believe that the Hour will ever come to pass. Even if I am returned to my Lord, I will find at Him better things." Most certainly, we will inform the disbelievers of all their works, and will commit them to severe retribution.
41/51 When we bless the human being, he turns away, and drifts farther and farther away, and when he suffers any affliction, he implores loudly.
41/52 Proclaim: "What if this is truly from GOD, then you decide to reject it? Who are farther astray than those who decide to oppose this?"
41/53 We will show them our proofs in the horizons, and within themselves, until they realize that this is the truth. Is your Lord not sufficient as a witness of all things?
41/54 Indeed, they are doubtful about meeting their Lord. He is fully aware of all things.
