46/1 Ha Mim.
46/2 The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the Mighty, theWise.
46/3 We did not create the heavens and the earth and what isbetween them two save with truth and (for) an appointedterm; and those who disbelieve turn aside from what they arewarned of.
46/4 Say: Have you considered what you call upon besidesAllah? Show me what they have created of the earth, or havethey a share in the heavens? Bring me a book before this ortraces of knowledge, if you are truthful.
46/5 And who is in greater error than he who calls besidesAllah upon those that will not answer him till the day ofresurrection and they are heedless of their call?
46/6 And when men are gathered together they shall be theirenemies, and shall be deniers of their worshipping (them).
46/7 And when Our clear communications are recited to them,those who disbelieve say with regard to the truth when itcomes to them: This is clear magic.
46/8 Nay! they say: He has forged it. Say: If I have forgedit, you do not control anything for me from Allah; He knowsbest what you utter concerning it; He is enough as a witnessbetween me and you, and He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
46/9 Say: I am not the first of the messengers, and I do notknow what will be done with me or with you: I do not followanything but that which is revealed to me, and I am nothingbut a plain warner.
46/10 Say: Have you considered if it is from Allah, and youdisbelieve in it, and a witness from among the children ofIsrael has borne witness of one like it, so he believed,while you are big with pride; surely Allah does not guidethe unjust people.
46/11 And those who disbelieve say concerning those whobelieve: If it had been a good, they would not have goneahead of us therein. And as they do not seek to be rightlydirected thereby, they say: It is an old lie.
46/12 And before it the Book of Musa was a guide and a mercy:and this is a Book verifying (it) in the Arabic languagethat it may warn those who are unjust and as good news forthe doers of good.
46/13 Surely those who say, Our Lord is Allah, then theycontinue on the right way, they shall have no fear nor shallthey grieve.
46/14 These are the dwellers of the garden, abiding therein: areward for what they did.
46/15 And We have enjoined on man doing of good to hisparents; with trouble did his mother bear him and withtrouble did she bring him forth; and the bearing of him andthe weaning of him was thirty months; until when he attainshis maturity and reaches forty years, he says: My Lord!grant me that I may give thanks for Thy favor which Thouhast bestowed on me and on my parents, and that I may dogood which pleases Thee and do good to me in respect of myoffspring; surely I turn to Thee, and surely I am of thosewho submit.
46/16 These are they from whom We accept the best of what theyhave done and pass over their evil deeds, among the dwellersof the garden; the promise of truth which they werepromised.
46/17 And he who says to his parents: Fie on you! do youthreaten me that I shall be brought forth when generationshave already passed away before me? And they both call forAllah's aid: Woe to you! believe, surely the promise ofAllah is true. But he says: This is nothing but stories ofthe ancients.
46/18 These are they against whom the word has proved trueamong nations of the jinn and the men that have alreadypassed away before them; surely they are losers.
46/19 And for all are degrees according to what they did, andthat He may pay them back fully their deeds and they shallnot be wronged.
46/20 And on the day when those who disbelieve shall bebrought before the fire: You did away with your good thingsin your life of the world and you enjoyed them for a while,so today you shall be rewarded with the punishment ofabasement because you were unjustly proud in the land andbecause you transgressed.
46/21 And mention the brother of Ad; when he warned his peoplein the sandy plains,-- and indeed warners came before him andafter him-- saying Serve none but Allah; surely I fear for youthe punishment of a grievous day.
46/22 They said: Have you come to us to turn us away from ourgods; then bring us what you threaten us with, if you are ofthe truthful ones.
46/23 He said: The knowledge is only with Allah, and I deliverto you the message with which I am sent, but I see you are apeople who are ignorant.
46/24 So when they saw it as a cloud appearing in the skyadvancing towards their valleys, they said: This is a cloudwhich will give us rain. Nay! it is what you sought tohasten on, a blast of wind in which is a painful punishment,
46/25 Destroying everything by the command of its Lord, sothey became such that naught could be seen except theirdwellings. Thus do We reward the guilty people.
46/26 And certainly We had established them in what We havenot established you in, and We had given-- them ears and eyesand hearts, but neither their ears, nor their eyes, northeir hearts availed them aught, since they denied thecommunications of Allah, and that which they mockedencompassed them.
46/27 And certainly We destroyed the towns which are aroundyou, and We repeat the communications that they might turn.
46/28 Why did not then those help them whom they took for godsbesides Allah to draw (them) nigh (to Him)? Nay! they werelost to them; and this was their lie and what they forged.
46/29 And when We turned towards you a party of the jinn wholistened to the Quran; so when they came to it, they said:Be silent; then when it was finished, they turned back totheir people warning (them).
46/30 They said: O our people! we have listened to a Bookrevealed after Musa verifying that which is before it,guiding to the truth and to a right path:
46/31 O our people! accept the Divine caller and believe inHim, He will forgive you of your faults and protect you froma painful punishment.
46/32 And whoever does not accept the-Divine caller, he shallnot escape in the earth and he shall not have guardiansbesides Him, these are in manifest error.
46/33 Have they not considered that Allah, Who created theheavens and the earth and was not tired by their creation,is able to give life to the dead? Aye! He has surely powerover all things.
46/34 And on the day when those who disbelieve shall bebrought before the fire: Is it not true? They shall say:Aye! by our Lord! He will say: Then taste the punishment,because you disbelieved.
46/35 Therefore bear up patiently as did the messengers endowedwith constancy bear up with patience and do not seek tohasten for them (their doom). On the day that they shall seewhat they are promised they shall be as if they had nottarried save an hour of the day. A sufficient exposition!Shall then any be destroyed save the transgressing people?
