3/1 Alif Lam Mim.
3/2 Allah, (there is) no god but He, the Everliving, the Self-subsistingby Whom all things subsist
3/3 He has revealed to you the Book with truth, verifying thatwhich is before it, and He revealed the Tavrat and the Injeelaforetime, a guidance for the people, and He sent the Furqan.
3/4 Surely they who disbelieve in the communications of Allahthey shall have a severe chastisement; and Allah is Mighty, theLord of retribution.
3/5 Allah-- surely nothing is hidden from Him in the earth or in theheaven.
3/6 He it is Who shapes you in the wombs as He likes; there isno god but He, the Mighty, the Wise
3/7 He it is Who has revealed the Book to you; some of its versesare decisive, they are the basis of the Book, and others areallegorical; then as for those in whose hearts there isperversity they follow the part of it which is allegorical,seeking to mislead and seeking to give it (their own)interpretation. but none knowsits interpretation except Allah, and those who are firmly rootedin knowledge say: We believe in it, it is all from our Lord; andnone do mind except those having understanding.
3/8 Our Lord! make not our hearts to deviate after Thou hastguided us aright, and grant us from Thee mercy; surely Thou artthe most liberal Giver.
3/9 Our Lord! surely Thou art the Gatherer of men on a dayabout which there is no doubt; surely Allah will not fail (His)promise.
3/10 (As for) those who disbelieve, surely neither their wealthnor their children shall avail them in the least against Allah,andthese it is who are the fuel of the fire.
3/11 Like the striving of the people of Firon and those beforethem; they rejected Our communications, so Allah destroyedthem on account of their faults; and Allah is severe in requiting(evil).
3/12 Say to those who disbelieve: You shall be vanquished, anddriven together to hell; and evil is the resting-place.
3/13 Indeed there was a sign for you in the two hosts (which)met together in encounter; one party fighting in the way of Allahand the other unbelieving, whom they saw twice as many asthemselves with the sight of the eye and Allah strengthens withHis aid whom He pleases; most surely there is a lesson in this forthose who have sight.
3/14 The love of desires, of women and sons and hoardedtreasures of gold and silver and well bred horses and cattle andtilth, is made to seem fair to men; this is the provision of the lifeof this world; and Allah is He with Whom is the good goal (oflife).
3/15 Say:Shall}I tell you what is better than these? For thosewho guard (against evil) are gardens with their Lord, beneathwhich rivers flow, to abide in them, and pure mates and Allah'spleasure; and Allah sees the servants.
3/16 Those who say: Our Lord! surely we believe, therefore forgiveus our faults and save us from the chastisement of thefire.
3/17 The patient, and the truthful, and the obedient, and thosewho spend (benevolently) and those who ask forgiveness in themorning times.
3/18 Allah bears witness that there is no god but He, and (so do)the angels and those possessed of knowledge, maintaining Hiscreation with justice; there is no god but He, the Mighty, theWise.
3/19 Surely the (true) religion with Allah is Islam, and those towhom the Book had been given did not show opposition but afterknowledge had come to them, out of envy among themselves; andwhoever disbelieves in the communications of Allah then surelyAllah is quick in reckoning.
3/20 But if they dispute with you, say: I have submitted myselfentirely to Allah and (so) every one who follows me; and say tothose who have been given the Book and the unlearned people: Doyou submit yourselves? So if they submit then indeed they followthe right way; and if they turn back, then upon you is only thedelivery of the message and Allah sees the servants.
3/21 Surely (as for) those who disbelieve in the communications ofAllah and slay the prophets unjustly and slay those among men whoenjoin justice, announce to them a painful chastisement.
3/22 Those are they whose works shall become null in this world aswell as the hereafter, and they shall have no helpers.
3/23 Have you not considered those (Jews) who are given a portionof the Book? They are invited to the Book of Allah that it mightdecide between them, then a part of them turn back and theywithdraw.
3/24 This is because they say: The fire shall not touch us but fora few days; and what they have forged deceives them in the matterof their religion.
3/25 Then how will it be when We shall gather them together on aday about which there is no doubt, and every soul shall be fullypaid what it has earned, and they shall not be dealt withunjustly?
3/26 Say: O Allah, Master of the Kingdom! Thou givest the kingdomto whomsoever Thou pleasest and takest away the kingdom fromwhomsoever Thou pleasest, and Thou exaltest whom Thou pleasestand abasest whom Thou pleasest in Thine hand is the good; surety,Thou hast power over all things.
3/27 Thou makest the night to pass into the day and Thou makestthe day to pass into the night, and Thou bringest forth theliving from the dead and Thou bringest forth the dead from theliving, and Thou givest sustenance to whom Thou pleasest withoutmeasure.
3/28 Let not the believers take the unbelievers for friends ratherthan believers; and whoever does this, he shall have nothing of(the guardianship of) Allah, but you should guard yourselvesagainst them, guarding carefully; and Allah makes you cautiousof (retribution from) Himself; and to Allah is the eventualcoming.
3/29 Say: Whether you hide what is in your hearts or manifest it,Allah knows it, and He knows whatever is in the heavens andwhatever is in the earth, and Allah has power over all things.
3/30 On the day that every soul shall find present what it hasdone of good and what it has done of evil, it shall wish thatbetween it and that (evil) there were a long duration of time;and Allah makes you to be cautious of (retribution from) Himself;and Allah is Compassionate to the servants.
3/31 Say: If you love Allah, then follow me, Allah will love youand forgive you your faults, and Allah is Forgiving, MercifuL
3/32 Say: Obey Allah and the Messenger; but if they turn back, thensurely Allah does not love the unbelievers.
3/33 Surely Allah chose Adam and Nuh and the descendants ofIbrahim and the descendants of Imran above the nations.
3/34 Offspring one of the other; and Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
3/35 When a woman of Imran said: My Lord! surely I vow to Theewhat is in my womb, to be devoted (to Thy service); accepttherefore from me, surely Thou art the Hearing, the Knowing.
3/36 So when she brought forth, she said: My Lord! Surely I havebrought it forth a female-- and Allah knew best what she broughtforth-- and the male is not like the female, and I have named itMarium, and I commend her and her offspring into Thy protectionfrom the accursed Shaitan.
3/37 So her Lord accepted her with a good acceptance and made hergrow up a good growing, and gave her into the charge of Zakariya;whenever Zakariya entered the sanctuary to (see) her, he foundwith her food. He said: O Marium! whence comes this to you? Shesaid: It is from Allah. Surely Allah gives to whom He pleaseswithout measure.
3/38 There did Zakariya pray to his Lord; he said: My Lord! grantme from Thee good offspring; surely Thou art the Hearer ofprayer.
3/39 Then the angels called to him as he stood praying in thesanctuary: That Allah gives you the good news of Yahya verifyinga Word from Allah, and honorable and chaste and a prophet fromamong the good ones.
3/40 He said: My Lord! when shall there be a son (born) to me, andold age has already come upon me, and my wife is barren? He said:even thus does Allah what He pleases.
3/41 He said: My Lord! appoint a sign for me. Said He: Your signis that you should not speak to men for three days except bysigns; and remember your Lord much and glorify Him in the eveningand the morning.
3/42 And when the angels said: O Marium! surely Allah haschosen you and purified you and chosen you above the womenof of the world.
3/43 O Marium! keep to obedience to your Lord and humble yourself,and bow down with those who bow.
3/44 This is of the announcements relating to the unseen which Wereveal to you; and you were not with them when they casttheir pens (to decide) which of them should have Marium in hischarge, and you were not with them when they contended one withanother.
3/45 When the angels said: O Marium, surely Allah gives yougood news with a Word from Him (of one) whose name is the '.Messiah, Isa son of Marium, worthy of regard in this world andthe hereafter and of those who are made near (to Allah).
3/46 And he shall speak to the people when in the cradle and whenof old age, and (he shall be) one of the good ones.
3/47 She said: My Lord! when shall there be a son (born) toI me, and man has not touched me? He said: Even so, Allah createswhat He pleases; when He has decreed a matter, He only says toit, Be, and it is.
3/48 And He will teach him the Book and the wisdom and theTavrat and the Injeel.
3/49 And (make him) a messenger to the children of Israel: That Ihave come to you with a sign from your Lord, that I determine foryou out of dust like the form of a bird, then I breathe into itand it becomes a bird with Allah's permission and I heal theblind and the leprous, and bring the dead to life with Allah'spermission and I inform you of what you should eat and what youshould store in your houses; most surely there is a sign in thisfor you, if you are believers.
3/50 And a verifier of that which is before me of the Taurat andthat I may allow you part of that which has been forbidden t you,and I have come to you with a sign from your Lord therefore becareful of (your duty to) Allah and obey me.
3/51 Surely Allah is my Lord and your Lord, therefore serve Him;this is the right path.
3/52 But when Isa perceived unbelief on their part, he said Whowill be my helpers in Allah's way? The disciples said: Weare helpers (in the way) of Allah: We believe in Allah and bearwitness that we are submitting ones.
3/53 Our Lord! we believe in what Thou hast revealed and wefollow the messenger, so write us down with those who bear witness.
3/54 And they planned and Allah (also) planned, and Allah isthe best of planners.
3/55 And when Allah said: O Isa, I am going to terminate theperiod of your stay (on earth) and cause you to ascend unto Meand purify you of those who disbelieve and make those whofollow you above those who disbelieve to the day of resurrection;then to Me shall be your return, so l will decide between youconcerning that in which you differed.
3/56 Then as to those who disbelieve, I will chastise them withsevere chastisement in this world and the hereafter, and theyshall have no helpers.
3/57 And as to those who believe and do good deeds, He willpay them fully their rewards; and Allah does not love the unjust.
3/58 This We recite to you of the communications and the wisereminder.
3/59 Surely the likeness of Isa is with Allah as the likeness ofAdam; He created him from dust, then said to him, Be, and hewas.
3/60 (This is) the truth from your Lord, so be not of thedisputers.
3/61 But whoever disputes with you in this matter after whathas come to you of knowledge, then say: Come let us call oursons and your sons and our women and your women and ournear people and your near people, then let us be earnest inprayer, and pray for the curse of Allah on the liars.
3/62 Most surely this is the true explanation, and there is nogod but Allah; and most surely Allah-- He is the Mighty, theWise.
3/63 But if they turn back, then surely Allah knows the mischief-makers.
3/64 Say: O followers of the Book! come to an equitable propositionbetween us and you that we shall not serve any but Allahand (that) we shall not associate aught with Him, and (that)some of us shall not take others for lords besides Allah; but ifthey turn back, then say: Bear witness that we are Muslims.
3/65 O followers of the Book! why do you dispute aboutIbrahim, when the Taurat and the Injeel were not revealed tillafter him; do you not then understand?
3/66 Behold! you are they who disputed about that of whichyou had knowledge; why then do you dispute about that ofwhich you have no knowledge? And Allah knows while you donot know.
3/67 Ibrahim was not a Jew nor a Christian but he was (an) upright(man), a Muslim, and he was not one of the polytheists.
3/68 Most surely the nearest of people to Ibrahim are those whofollowed him and this Prophet and those who believe and Allah isthe guardian of the believers.
3/69 A party of the followers of the Book desire that they shouldlead you astray, and they lead not astray but themselves, andthey do not perceive.
3/70 O followers of the Book! Why do you disbelieve in thecommunications of Allah while you witness (them)?
3/71 O followers of the Book! Why do you confound the truth withthe falsehood and hide the truth while you know?
3/72 And a party of the followers of the Book say: Avow belief inthat which has been revealed to those who believe, in the firstpart of the day, and disbelieve at the end of it, perhaps they goback on their religion.
3/73 And do not believe but in him who follows your religion. Say:Surely the (true) guidance is the guidance of Allah-- that one maybe given (by Him) the like of what you were given; or they wouldcontend with you by an argument before your Lord. Say: Surelygrace is in the hand of Allah, He gives it to whom Hepleases; and Allah is Ample-giving, Knowing.
3/74 He specially chooses for His mercy whom He pleases; and Allahis the Lord of mighty grace.
3/75 And among the followers of the Book there are some such thatif you entrust one (of them) with a heap of wealth, he shall payit back to you; and among them there are some such that if youentrust one (of them) with a dinar he shall not pay it back toyou except so long as you remain firm in demanding it; this isbecause they say: There is not upon us in the matter of theunlearned people any way (to reproach); and they tell a lieagainst Allah while they know.
3/76 Yea, whoever fulfills his promise and guards (againstevil)-- then surely Allah loves those who guard (against evil).
3/77 (As for) those who take a small price for the covenant ofAllah and their own oaths-- surely they shall have no portion inthe hereafter, and Allah will not speak to them, nor will He lookupon them on the day of resurrection nor will He purify them, andthey shall have a painful chastisement.
3/78 Most surely there is a party amongst those who distort theBook with their tongue that you may consider it to be (a part) ofthe Book, and they say, It is from Allah, while it is not fromAllah, and they tell a lie against Allah whilst they know.
3/79 It is not meet for a mortal that Allah should give him theBook and the wisdom and prophethood, then he should say tomen: Be my servants rather than Allah's; but rather (he wouldsay): Be worshippers of the Lord because of your teaching theBook and your reading (it yourselves).
3/80 And neither would he enjoin you that you should take theangels and the prophets for lords; what! would he enjoin youwith unbelief after you are Muslims?
3/81 And when Allah made a covenant through the prophets:Certainly what I have given you of Book and wisdom-- then anmessenger comes to you verifying that which is with you, you mustbelieve in him, and you must aid him. He said: Do you affirmand accept My compact in this (matter)? They said: We doaffirm. He said: Then bear witness, and I (too) am of the bearersof witness with you.
3/82 Whoever therefore turns back after this, these it is that arethe transgressors.
3/83 Is it then other than Allah's religion that they seek (tofollow), and to Him submits whoever is in the heavens and theearth, willingly or unwillingly, and to Him shall they bereturned.
3/84 Say: We believe in Allah and what has been revealed tous, and what was revealed to Ibrahim and Ismail and Ishaq andYaqoub and the tribes, and what was given to Musa and Isa andto the prophets from their Lord; we do not make any distinctionbetween any of them, and to Him do we submit.
3/85 And whoever desires a religion other than Islam, it shallnot be accepted from him, and in the hereafter he shall be one ofthe losers.
3/86 How shall Allah guide a people who disbelieved after theirbelieving and (after) they had borne witness that the Messenger wastrue and clear arguments had come to them; and Allah does notguide the unjust people.
3/87 (As for) these, their reward is that upon them is the curseof Allah and the angels and of men, all together.
3/88 Abiding in it; their chastisement shall not be lightened norshall they be respited.
3/89 Except those who repent after that and amend, then surelyAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
3/90 Surely, those who disbelieve a,fter their believing, thenincrease in unbelief, their repentance shall not be accepted, andthese are they that go astray.
3/91 Surely, those who disbelieve and die while they are unbelievers,the earth full of gold shall not be accepted from one ofthem, though he should offer to ransom himself with it, these itis who shall have a painful chastisement, and they shall have nohelpers.
3/92 By no means shall you attain to righteousness until youspend (benevolently) out of what you love; and whatever thingyou spend, Allah surely knows it.
3/93 All food was lawful to the children of Israel except thatwhich Israel had forbidden to himself, before the Taurat wasrevealed. Say: Bring then the Taurat and read it, if you aretruthful.
3/94 Then whoever fabricates a lie against Allah after this,these it is that are the unjust.
3/95 Say: Allah has spoken the truth, therefore follow thereligion of Ibrahim, the upright one; and he was not one of thepolytheists.
3/96 Most surely the first house appointed for men is the one atBekka, blessed and a guidance for the nations.
3/97 In it are clear signs, the standing place of Ibrahim, andwhoever enters it shall be secure, and pilgrimage to the House isincumbent upon men for the sake of Allah, (upon) every onewho is able to undertake the journey to it; and whoever disbelieves,then surely Allah is Self-sufficient, above any need ofthe worlds.
3/98 Say: O followers of the Book! why do you disbelieve inthe communications of Allah? And Allah is a witness of whatyou do.
3/99 Say: O followers of the Book! why do you hinder him whobelieves from the way of Allah? You seek (to make) it crooked,while you are witness, and Allah is not heedless of what you do.
3/100 O you who believe! if you obey a party from amongthose who have been given the Book, they will turn you back asunbelievers after you have believed.
3/101 But how can you disbelieve while it is you to whom thecommunications of Allah are recited, and among you is HisMessenger? And whoever holds fast to Allah, he indeed is guided tothe right path.
3/102 O you who believe! be careful of (your duty to) Allahwith the care which is due to Him, and do not die unless you areMuslims.
3/103 And hold fast by the covenant of Allah all together andbe not disunited, and remember the favor of Allah on you whenyou were enemies, then He united your hearts so by His favoryou became brethren; and you were on the brink of a pit of fire,then He saved you from it, thus does Allah make clear to youHis communications that you may follow the right way.
3/104 And from among you there should be a party who inviteto good and enjoin what is right and forbid the wrong, and theseit is that shall be successful.
3/105 And be not like those who became divided and disagreedafter clear arguments had come to them, and these it is that shallhave a grievous chastisement.
3/106 On the day when (some) faces shall turn white and(some) faces shall turn black; then as to those whose faces turnblack: Did you disbelieve after your believing? Taste thereforethe chastisement because you disbelieved.
3/107 And as to those whose faces turn white, they shall be inAllah's mercy; in it they shall-abide.
3/108 These are the communications of Allah which We reciteto you with truth, and Allah does not desire any injustice to thecreatures.
3/109 And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in theearth is Allah's; and to Allah all things return
3/110 You are the best of the nations raised up for (the benefitof) men; you enjoin what is right and forbid the wrong andbelieve in Allah; and if the followers of the Book had believed itwould have been better for them; of them (some) are believersand most of them are transgressors.
3/111 They shall by no means harm you but with a slight evil;and if they fight with you they shall turn (their) backs to you,then shall they not be helped.
3/112 Abasement is made to cleave to them wherever they arefound, except under a covenant with Allah and a covenant withmen, and they have become deserving of wrath from Allah, andhumiliation is made to cleave to them; this is because theydisbelieved in the communications of Allah and slew the prophetsunjustly; this is because they disobeyed and exceeded thelimits.
3/113 They are not all alike; of the followers of the Book thereis an upright party; they recite Allah's communications in thenighttime and they adore (Him).
3/114 They believe in Allah and the last day, and they enjoinwhat is right and forbid the wrong and they strive with oneanother in hastening to good deeds, and those are among the good.
3/115 And whatever good they do, they shall not be denied it, andAllah knows those who guard (against evil).
3/116 (As for) those who disbelieve, surely neither their wealthnor their children shall avail them in the least against Allah;and these are the inmates of the fire; therein they shall abide.
3/117 The likeness of what they spend in the life of this world isas the likeness of wind in which is intense cold (that) smitesthe seed produce of a people who haw done injustice to theirsouls and destroys it; and Allah is not unjust to them, but theyare unjust to themselves.
3/118 O you who believe! do not take for intimate friends fromamong others than your own people; they do not fall short ofinflicting loss upon you; they love what distresses you; vehementhatred has already appeared from out of their mouths, and whattheir breasts conceal is greater still; indeed, We have made thecommunications clear to you, if you will understand.
3/119 Lo! you are they who will love them while they do not loveyou, and you believe in the Book (in) the whole of it; and whenthey meet you they say: We believe, and when they are alone, theybite the ends of their fingers in rage against you. Say: Die inyour rage; surely Allah knows what is in the breasts.
3/120 If good befalls you, it grieves them, and if an evil afflictsyou, they rejoice at it; and if you are patient and guard yourselves,their scheme will not injure you in any way; surely Allahcomprehends what they do.
3/121 And when you did go forth early in the morning from yourfamily to lodge the believers in encampments for war andAllah is Hearing, Knowing.
3/122 When two parties from among you had determined that theyshould show cowardice, and Allah was the guardian of them both,and in Allah should the believers trust.
3/123 And Allah did certainly assist you at Badr when you wereweak; be careful of (your duty to) Allah then, that you maygive thanks.
3/124 When you said to the believers: Does it not suffice you thatyour Lord should assist you with three thousand of the angelssent down?
3/125 Yea! if you remain patient and are on your guard, and theycome upon you in a headlong manner, your Lord will assist youwith five thousand of the havoc-making angels.
3/126 And Allah did not make it but as good news for you, andthat your hearts might be at ease thereby, and victory is onlyfrom Allah, the Mighty, the Wise.
3/127 That He may cut off a portion from among those whodisbelieve, or abase them so that they should return disappointedof attaining what they desired.
3/128 You have no concern in the affair whether He turns tothem (mercifully) or chastises them, for surely they are unjust.
3/129 And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in theearth is Allah's; He forgives whom He pleases and chastiseswhom He pleases; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
3/130 O you who believe! do not devour usury, making itdouble and redouble, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, thatyou may be successful.
3/131 And guard yourselves against the fire which has beenprepared for the unbelievers.
3/132 And obey Allah and the Messenger, that you may be shownmercy.
3/133 And hasten to forgiveness from your Lord; and a Garden,the extensiveness of which is (as) the heavens and the earth, it isprepared for those who guard (against evil).
3/134 Those who spend (benevolently) in ease as well as instraitness, and those who restrain (their) anger and pardon men;and Allah loves the doers of good (to others).
3/135 And those who when they commit an indecency or doinjustice to their souls remember Allah and ask forgiveness fortheir faults-- and who forgives the faults but Allah, and (who) donot knowingly persist in what they have done.
3/136 (As for) these-- their reward is forgiveness from theirLord, and gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abide in them,and excellent is the reward of the laborers.
3/137 Indeed there have been examples before you; thereforetravel in the earth and see what was the end of the rejecters.
3/138 This is a clear statement for men, and a guidance and anadmonition to those who guard (against evil).
3/139 And be not infirm, and be not grieving, and you shallhave the upper hand if you are believers.
3/140 If a wound has afflicted you (at Ohud), a wound like ithas also afflicted the (unbelieving) people; and We bring thesedays to men by turns, and that Allah may know those whobelieve and take witnesses from among you; and Allah does notlove the unjust.
3/141 And that He may purge those who believe and deprive theunbelievers of blessings.
3/142 Do you think that you will enter the garden while Allah hasnot yet known those who strive hard from among you, and (He hasnot) known the patient.
3/143 And certainly you desired death before you met it, so indeedyou have seen it and you look (at it)
3/144 And Muhammad is no more than a messenger; the messengers havealready passed away before him; if then he dies or is killed willyou turn back upon your heels? And whoever turns back upon hisheels!s, he will by no means do harm to Allah in the least andAllah will reward the grateful.
3/145 And a soul will not die but with the permission of Allah theterm is fixed; and whoever desires the reward of this world, Ishall give him of it, and whoever desires the reward of thehereafter I shall give him of it, and I will reward the grateful.
3/146 And how many a prophet has fought with whom were manyworshippers of the Lord; so they did not become weak-hearted onaccount of what befell them in Allah's way, nor did they weaken,nor did they abase themselves; and Allah loves the patient.
3/147 And their saying was no other than that they said: Our Lord!forgive us our faults and our extravagance in our affair and makefirm our feet and help us against the unbelieving people.
3/148 So Allah gave them the reward of this world and betterreward of the hereafter and Allah loves those who do good (toothers).
3/149 O you who believe! if you obey those who disbelieve theywill turn you back upon your heels, so you will turn back losers.
3/150 Nay! Allah is your Patron and He is the best of the helpers.
3/151 We will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve,because they set up with Allah that for which He has sent down noauthority, and their abode is the fire, and evil is the abode ofthe unjust.
3/152 And certainly Allah made good to you His promise when youslew them by His permission, until when you became weak-heartedand disputed about the affair and disobeyed after He had shownyou that which you loved; of you were some who desired this worldand of you were some who desired the hereafter; then He turnedyou away from them that He might tryyou; and He has certainly pardoned you, and Allah is Graciousto the believers.
3/153 When you ran off precipitately and did not wait for anyone, and the Messenger was calling you from your rear, so He gaveyou another sorrow instead of (your) sorrow, so that you mightnot grieve at what had escaped you, nor (at) what befell you; andAllah is aware of what you do.
3/154 Then after sorrow He sent down security upon you, acalm coming upon a party of you, and (there was) another partywhom their own souls had rendered anxious; they entertainedabout Allah thoughts of ignorance quite unjustly, saying: Wehave no hand in the affair. Say: Surely the affair is wholly (in thehands) of Allah. They conceal within their souls what theywould not reveal to you. They say: Had we any hand in theaffair, we would not have been slain here. Say: Had you remainedin your houses, those for whom slaughter was ordainedwould certainly have gone forth to the places where they wouldbe slain, and that Allah might test what was in your breasts andthat He might purge what was in your hearts; and Allah knowswhat is in the breasts.
3/155 (As for) those of you who turned back on the day whenthe two armies met, only the Shaitan sought to cause them tomake a slip on account of some deeds they had done, andcertainly Allah has pardoned them; surely Allah is Forgiving,Forbearing.
3/156 O you who believe! be not like those who disbelieve andsay of their brethren when they travel in the earth or engage infighting: Had they been with us, they would not have died andthey would not have been slain; so Allah makes this to be anintense regret in their hearts; and Allah gives life and causesdeath and Allah sees what you do.
3/157 And if you are slain in the way of Allah or you die,certainly forgiveness from Allah and mercy is better than whatthey amass.
3/158 And if indeed you die or you are slain, certainly to Allahshall you be gathered together.
3/159 Thus it is due to mercy from Allah that you deal withthem gently, and had you been rough, hard hearted, they wouldcertainly have dispersed from around you; pardon them thereforeand ask pardon for them, and take counsel with them in theaffair; so when you have decided, then place your trust in Allah;surely Allah loves those who trust.
3/160 If Allah assists you, then there is none that can overcomeyou, and if He forsakes you, who is there then that can assistyou after Him? And on Allah should the believers rely.
3/161 And it is not attributable to a prophet that he should actunfaithfully; and he who acts unfaithfully shall bring that inrespect of which he has acted unfaithfully on the day ofresurrection; then shall every soul be paid back fully what ithas earned, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.
3/162 Is then he who follows the pleasure of Allah like him whohas made himself deserving of displeasure from Allah, and hisabode is hell; and it is an evil destination.
3/163 There are (varying) grades with Allah, and Allah sees whatthey do.
3/164 Certainly Allah conferred a benefit upon the believers whenHe raised among them a Messenger from among themselves, recitingto them His communications and purifying them, and teaching themthe Book and the wisdom, although before that they were surely inmanifest error.
3/165 What! when a misfortune befell you, and you had certainlyafflicted (the unbelievers) with twice as much, you began to say:Whence is this? Say: It is from yourselves; surely Allah haspower over all things.
3/166 And what befell you on the day when the two armies met (atOhud) was with Allah's knowledge, and that He might know thebelievers.
3/167 And that He might know the hypocrites; and it was said tothem: Come, fight in Allah's way, or defend yourselves. Theysaid: If we knew fighting, we would certainly have followed you.They were on that day much nearer to unbelief than to belief.They say with their mouths what is not in their hearts, and Allahbest knows what they conceal.
3/168 Those who said of their brethren whilst they (themselves)held back: Had they obeyed us, they would not have been killed.Say: Then avert death from yourselves if you speak the truth.
3/169 And reckon not those who are killed in Allah's way as dead;nay, they are alive (and) are provided sustenance from theirLord;
3/170 Rejoicing in what Allah has given them out of His grace andthey rejoice for the sake of those who, (being left) behind them,have not yet joined them, that they shall have no fear, nor shallthey grieve.
3/171 They rejoice on account of favor from Allah and (His) grace,and that Allah will not waste the reward of the believers.
3/172 (As for) those who responded (at Ohud) to the call of Allahand the Messenger after the wound had befallen them, those amongthem who do good (to others) and guard (against evil)shall have agreat reward.
3/173 Those to whom the people said: Surely men have gatheredagainst you, therefore fear them, but this increased their faith,and they said: Allah is sufficient for us and most excellent isthe Protector.
3/174 So they returned with favor from Allah and (His) grace, noevil touched them and they followed the pleasure of Allah; andAllah is the Lord of mighty grace.
3/175 It is only the Shaitan that causes you to fear from hisfriends, but do not fear them, and fear Me if you are believers.
3/176 And let not those grieve you who fall into unbelief hastily;surely they can do no harm to Allah at all; Allah intends that Heshould not give them any portion in the hereafter, and they shallhave a grievous chastisement.
3/177 Surely those who have bought unbelief at the price of faithshall do no harm at all to Allah, and they shall have a painfulchastisement.
3/178 And let not those who disbelieve think that Our granting themrespite is better for their souls; We grant them respite onlythat they may add to their sins; and they shall have adisgraceful chastisement.
3/179 On no account will Allah leave the believers in thecondition which you are in until He separates the evil from thegood; nor is Allah going to make you acquainted with the unseen,but Allah chooses of His messengers whom He pleases; thereforebelieve in Allah and His messengers; and if you believe and guard(against evil), then you shall have a great reward.
3/180 And let not those deem, who are niggardly in giving awaythat which Allah has granted them out of His grace, that it isgood for them; nay, it is worse for them; they shall have thatwhereof they were niggardly made to cleave to their necks on theresurrection day; and Allah's is the heritage of the heavens andthe earth; and Allah is aware of what you do.
3/181 Allah has certainly heard the saying of those who said:Surely Allah is poor and we are rich. I will record what theysay, and their killing the prophets unjustly, and I will say:Taste the chastisement of burning.
3/182 This is for what your own hands have sent before and becauseAllah is not in the least unjust to the servants.
3/183 (Those are they) who said: Surely Allah has enjoined us thatwe should not believe in any messenger until he brings us anoffering which the fire consumes. Say: Indeed, there came to youmessengers before me with clear arguments and with that which youdemand; why then did you kill them if you are truthful?
3/184 But if they reject you, so indeed were rejected before youmessengers who came with clear arguments and scriptures and theilluminating book.
3/185 Every soul shall taste of death, and you shall only bepaid fully your reward on the resurrection day; then whoever isremoved far away from the fire and is made to enter the gardenhe indeed has attained the object; and the life of this world isnothing but a provision of vanities.
3/186 You shall certainly be tried respecting your wealth andyour souls, and you shall certainly hear from those who havebeen given the Book before you and from those who are polytheistsmuch annoying talk; and if you are patient and guard(against evil), surely this is one of the affairs (which should be)determined upon.
3/187 And when Allah made a covenant with those who weregiven the Book: You shall certainly make it known to men andyou shall not hide it; but they cast it behind their backs and tooka small price for it; so evil is that which they buy.
3/188 Do not think those who rejoice for what they have doneand love that they should be praised for what they have notdone-- so do by no means think them to be safe from thechastisement, and they shall have a painful chastisement.
3/189 And Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth,and Allah has power over all things.
3/190 Most surely in the creation of the heavens and the earthand the alternation of the night and the day there are signs formen who understand.
3/191 Those who remember Allah standing and sitting andlying on their sides and reflect on the creation of the heavens andthe earth: Our Lord! Thou hast not created this in vain! Glory beto Thee; save us then from the chastisement of the fire:
3/192 Our Lord! surely whomsoever Thou makest enter thefire, him Thou hast indeed brought to disgrace, and there shallbe no helpers for the unjust:
3/193 Our Lord! surely we have heard a preacher calling to thefaith, saying: Believe in your Lord, so we did believe; Our Lord!forgive us therefore our faults, and cover our evil deeds andmake us die with the righteous.
3/194 Our Lord! and grant us what Thou hast promised us byThy messengers; and disgrace us not on the day of resurrection;surely Thou dost not fail to perform the promise.
3/195 So their Lord accepted their prayer: That I will not wastethe work of a worker among you, whether male or female, theone of you being from the other; they, therefore, who fled andwere turned out of their homes and persecuted in My way andwho fought and were slain, I will most certainly cover their evildeeds, and I will most certainly make them enter gardens beneathwhich rivers flow; a reward from Allah, and with Allah is yetbetter reward.
3/196 Let it not deceive you that those who disbelieve go to andfro in the cities fearlessly.
3/197 A brief enjoyment! then their abode is hell, and evil is theresting-place.
3/198 But as to those who are careful of (their duty to) theirLord, they shall have gardens beneath which rivers flow, abidingin them; an entertainment from their Lord, and that which iswith Allah is best for the righteous.
3/199 And most surely of the followers of the Book there arethose who believe in Allah and (in) that which has been revealedto you and (in) that which has been revealed to them, beinglowly before Allah; they do not take a small price for thecommunications of Allah; these it is that have their reward withtheir Lord; surely Allah is quick in reckoning.
3/200 O you who believe! be patient and excel in patience andremain steadfast, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, that youmay be successful.
