2/1 Alif Lam Mim.
2/2 This Book, there is no doubt in it, is a guide to those whoguard (against evil).
2/3 Those who believe in the unseen and keep up prayer andspend out of what We have given them.
2/4 And who believe in that which has been revealed to youand that which was revealed before you and they are sure of thehereafter.
2/5 These are on a right course from their Lord and these it isthat shall be successful.
2/6 Surely those who disbelieve, it being alike to them whetheryou warn them, or do not warn them, will not believe.
2/7 Allah has set a seal upon their hearts and upon theirhearing and there is a covering over their eyes, and there is agreat punishment for them.
2/8 And there are some people who say: We believe in Allahand the last day; and they are not at all believers.
2/9 They desire to deceive Allah and those who believe, andthey deceive only themselves and they do not perceive.
2/10 There is a disease in their hearts, so Allah added to theirdisease and they shall have a painful chastisement because they
2/11 And when it is said to them, Do not make mischief in theland, they say: We are but peace-makers.
2/12 Now surely they themselves are the mischief makers, but theydo not perceive.
2/13 And when it is said to them: Believe as the people believethey say: Shall we believe as the fools believe? Now surely theythemselves are the fools, but they do not know.
2/14 And when they meet those who believe, they say: We believe;and when they are alone with their Shaitans, they say: Surely weare with you, we were only mocking.
2/15 Allah shall pay them back their mockery, and He leaves themalone in their inordinacy, blindly wandering on.
2/16 These are they who buy error for the right direction, sotheir bargain shall bring no gain, nor are they the followers ofthe right direction.
2/17 Their parable is like the parable of one who kindled a firebut when it had illumined all around him, Allah took away theirlight, and left them in utter darkness-- they do not see.
2/18 Deaf, dumb (and) blind, so they will not turn back.
2/19 Or like abundant rain from the cloud in which is utterdarkness and thunder and lightning; they put their fingers intotheir ears because of the thunder peal, for fear of death, andAllah encompasses the unbelievers.
2/20 The lightning almost takes away their sight; whenever itshines on them they walk in it, and when it becomes dark to themthey stand still; and if Allah had pleased He would certainlyhave taken away their hearing and their sight; surely Allah haspower over all things.
2/21 O men! serve your Lord Who created you and those before youso that you may guard (against evil).
2/22 Who made the earth a resting place for you and the heaven acanopy and (Who) sends down rain from the cloud then brings forthwith it subsistence for you of the fruits; therefore do not setup rivals to Allah while you know.
2/23 And if you are in doubt as to that which We have revealed toOur servant, then produce a chapter like it and call on yourwitnesses besides Allah if you are truthful.
2/24 But if you do (it) not and never shall you do (it), then beon your guard against the fire of which men and stones are thefuel; it is prepared for the unbelievers.
2/25 And convey good news to those who believe and do gooddeeds, that they shall have gardens in which rivers flow;whenever they shall be given a portion of the fruit thereof, theyshall say: This is what was given to us before; and they shall begiven the like of it, and they shall have pure mates in them,and in them, they shall abide.
2/26 Surely Allah is not ashamed to set forth any parable-- (thatof) a gnat or any thing above that; then as for those whobelieve, they know that it is the truth from their Lord, and asfor those who disbelieve, they say: What is it that Allah meansby this parable: He causes many to err by it and many He leadsaright by it! but He does not cause to err by it (any) except thetransgressors,
2/27 Who break the covenant of Allah after its confirmation andcut asunder what Allah has ordered to be joined, and makemischief in the land; these it is that are the losers.
2/28 How do you deny Allah and you were dead and He gave you life?Again He will cause you to die and again bring you to life, thenyou shall be brought back to Him.
2/29 He it is Who created for you all that is in the earth, and Hedirected Himself to the heaven, so He made them complete sevenheavens, and He knows all things.
2/30 And when your Lord said to the angels, I am going to place inthe earth a khalif, they said: What! wilt Thou place in it suchas shall make mischief in it and shed blood, and we celebrate Thypraise and extol Thy holiness? He said: Surely I know what you donot know.
2/31 And He taught Adam all the names, then presented them to theangels; then He said: Tell me the names of those if you areright.
2/32 They said: Glory be to Thee! we have no knowledge but thatwhich Thou hast taught us; surely Thou art the Knowing, the Wise.
2/33 He said: O Adam! inform them of their names. Then when he hadinformed them of their names, He said: Did I not say to you thatI surely know what is ghaib in the heavens and the earth and(that) I know what you manifest and what you hide?
2/34 And when We said to the angels: Make obeisance to Adam theydid obeisance, but Iblis (did it not). He refused and he wasproud, and he was one of the unbelievers.
2/35 And We said: O Adam! Dwell you and your wife in thegarden and eat from it a plenteous (food) wherever you wish anddo not approach this tree, for then you will be of the unjust.
2/36 But the Shaitan made them both fall from it, and caused themto depart from that (state) in which they were; and We said: Getforth, some of you being the enemies of others, and there is foryou in the earth an abode and a provision for a time.
2/37 Then Adam received (some) words from his Lord, so He turnedto him mercifully; surely He is Oft-returning (to mercy), theMerciful.
2/38 We said: Go forth from this (state) all; so surely therewill come to you a guidance from Me, then whoever follows Myguidance, no fear shall come upon them, nor shall they grieve.
2/39 And (as to) those who disbelieve in and reject Mycommunications, they are the inmates of the fire, in it theyshall abide.
2/40 O children of Israel! call to mind My favor which I bestowedon you and be faithful to (your) covenant with Me, I will fulfill(My) covenant with you; and of Me, Me alone, should you beafraid.
2/41 And believe in what I have revealed, verifying that which iswith you, and be not the first to deny it, neither take a meanprice in exchange for My communications; and Me, Me alone shouldyou fear.
2/42 And do not mix up the truth with the falsehood, nor hide thetruth while you know (it).
2/43 And keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate and bow down withthose who bow down.
2/44 What! do you enjoin men to be good and neglect your own soulswhile you read the Book; have you then no sense?
2/45 And seek assistance through patience and prayer, and mostsurely it is a hard thing except for the humble ones,
2/46 Who know that they shall meet their Lord and that they shallreturn to Him.
2/47 O children of Israel! call to mind My favor which I bestowedon you and that I made you excel the nations.
2/48 And be on your guard against a day when one soul shall notavail another in the least, neither shall intercession on itsbehalf be accepted, nor shall any compensation be taken from it,nor shall they be helped.
2/49 And when We delivered you from Firon's people, who subjectedyou to severe torment, killing your sons and sparing your women,and in this there was a great trial from your Lord.
2/50 And when We parted the sea for you, so We saved you anddrowned the followers of Firon and you watched by.
2/51 And when We appointed a time of forty nights with Musa, thenyou took the calf (for a god) after him and you were unjust.
2/52 Then We pardoned you after that so that you might givethanks.
2/53 And when We gave Musa the Book and the distinction that youmight walk aright.
2/54 And when Musa said to his people: O my people! you havesurely been unjust to yourselves by taking the calf (for a god),therefore turn to your Creator (penitently), so kill your people,that is best for you with your Creator: so He turned to you(mercifully), for surely He is the Oft-returning (to mercy), theMerciful.
2/55 And when you said: O Musa! we will not believe in you untilwe see Allah manifestly, so the punishment overtook you while youlooked on.
2/56 Then We raised you up after your death that you may givethanks.
2/57 And We made the clouds to give shade over you and We sent toyou manna and quails: Eat of the good things that We have givenyou; and they did not do Us any harm, but they made their ownsouls suffer the loss.
2/58 And when We said: Enter this city, then eat from it aplenteous (food) wherever you wish, and enter the gate makingobeisance, and say, forgiveness. We will forgive you your wrongsand give more to those who do good (to others).
2/59 But those who were unjust changed it for a saying other thanthat which had been spoken to them, so We sent upon those whowere unjust a pestilence from heaven, because they transgressed.
2/60 And when Musa prayed for drink for his people, We said:Strike the rock with your staff So there gushed from it twelvesprings; each tribe knew its drinking place: Eat and drink of theprovisions of Allah and do not act corruptly in the land, makingmischief.
2/61 And when you said: O Musa! we cannot bear with one food,therefore pray Lord on our behalf to bring forth for us out ofwhat the earth grows, of its herbs and its cucumbers and itsgarlic and its lentils and its onions. He said: Will you exchangethat which is better for that which is worse? Enter a city, so youwill have what you ask for. And abasement and humiliation werebrought down upon them, and they became deserving of Allah'swrath; this was so because they disbelieved in thecommunications of Allah and killed the prophets unjustly; thiswas so because they disobeyed and exceeded the limits.
2/62 Surely those who believe, and those who are Jews, and the fChristians, and the Sabians, whoever believes in Allah and theLast day and does good, they shall have their reward from theirLord, and there is no fear for them, nor shall they grieve.
2/63 And when We took a promise from you and lifted the mountainover you: Take hold of the law (Tavrat) We have given you withfirmness and bear in mind what is in it, so that you may guard(against evil).
2/64 Then you turned back after that; so were it not for the graceof Allah and His mercy on you, you would certainly have beenamong the losers.
2/65 And certainly you have known those among you who exceeded thelimits of the Sabbath, so We said to them: Be (as) apes, despisedand hated.
2/66 So We made them an example to those who witnessed it andthose who came after it, and an admonition to those who guard(against evil).
2/67 And when Musa said to his people: Surely Allah commands youthat you should sacrifice a cow; they said: Do you ridicule us?He said: I seek the protection of Allah from being one of theignorant.
2/68 They said: Call on your Lord for our sake to make it plain tous what she is. Musa said: He says, Surely she is a cow neitheradvanced in age nor too young, of middle age between that (andthis); do therefore what you are commanded.
2/69 They said: Call on your Lord for our sake to make it plain tous what her color is. Musa said: He says, Surely she is a yellowcow; her color is intensely yellow, giving delight to thebeholders.
2/70 They said: Call on your Lord for our sake to make it plain tous what she is, for surely to us the cows are all alike, and ifAllah please we shall surely be guided aright.
2/71 Musa said: He says, Surely she is a cow not made submissivethat she should plough the land, nor does she irrigate the tilth;sound, without a blemish in her. They said: Now you have broughtthe truth; so they sacrificed her, though they had not the mindto do (it).
2/72 And when you killed a man, then you disagreed withrespect to that, and Allah was to bring forth that which you weregoing to hide.
2/73 So We said: Strike the (dead body) with part of the(Sacrificed cow), thus Allah brings the dead to life, and Heshows you His signs so that you may understand.
2/74 Then your hearts hardened after that, so that they were likerocks, rather worse in hardness; and surely there are some rocksfrom which streams burst forth, and surely there are some of themwhich split asunder so water issues out of them, and surely thereare some of them which fall down for fear of Allah, and Allah isnot at all heedless of what you do.
2/75 Do you then hope that they would believe in you, and a partyfrom among them indeed used to hear the Word of Allah, thenaltered it after they had understood it, and they know (this).
2/76 And when they meet those who believe they say: We believe,and when they are alone one with another they say: Do you talk tothem of what Allah has disclosed to you that they may contendwith you by this before your Lord? Do you not then understand?
2/77 Do they not know that Allah knows what they keep secret andwhat they make known?
2/78 And there are among them illiterates who know not the Bookbut only lies, and they do but conjecture.
2/79 Woe, then, to those who write the book with their hands andthen say: This is from Allah, so that they may take for it asmall price; therefore woe to them for what their hands havewritten and woe to them for what they earn.
2/80 And they say: Fire shall not touch us but for a few days.Say: Have you received a promise from Allah, then Allah will notfail to perform His promise, or do you speak against Allah whatyou do not know?
2/81 Yea, whoever earns evil and his sins beset him on every side,these are the inmates of the fire; in it they shall abide.
2/82 And (as for) those who believe and do good deeds, these arethe dwellers of the garden; in it they shall abide.
2/83 And when We made a covenant with the children of Israel: Youshall not serve any but Allah and (you shall do) good to (your)parents, and to the near of kin and to the orphans and the needy,and you shall speak to men good words and keep up prayer and paythe poor-rate. Then you turned back except a few of you and (nowtoo) you turn aside.
2/84 And when We made a covenant with you: You shall notshed your blood and you shall not turn your people out of yourcities; then you gave a promise while you witnessed.
2/85 Yet you it is who slay your people and turn a party fromamong you out of their homes, backing each other up againstthem unlawfully and exceeding the limits; and if they should cometo you, as captives you would ransom them-- while their veryturning out was unlawful for you. Do you then believe in a partof the Book and disbelieve in the other? What then is the re wardof such among you as do this but disgrace in the life of thisworld, and on the day of resurrection they shall be sent back tothe most grievous chastisement, and Allah is not at all heedlessof what you do.
2/86 These are they who buy the life of this world for thehereafter, so their chastisement shall not be lightened nor shallthey be helped.
2/87 And most certainly We gave Musa the Book and We sent messengersafter him one after another; and We gave Isa, the son of Marium,clear arguments and strengthened him with the holy spirit, What!whenever then a messenger came to you with thatwhich your souls did not desire, you were insolent so you calledsome liars and some you slew.
2/88 And they say: Our hearts are covered. Nay, Allah has cursedthem on account of their unbelief; so little it is that theybelieve.
2/89 And when there came to them a Book from Allah verifying thatwhich they have, and aforetime they used to pray for victoryagainst those who disbelieve, but when there came to them(Prophet) that which they did not recognize, they disbelieved inhim; so Allah's curse is on the unbelievers.
2/90 Evil is that for which they have sold their souls-- that theyshould deny what Allah has revealed, out of envy that Allahshould send down of His grace on whomsoever of His servants Hepleases; so they have made themselves deserving of wrath uponwrath, and there is a disgraceful punishment for the unbelievers.
2/91 And when it is said to them, Believe in what Allah hasrevealed, they say: We believe in that which was revealed to us;and they deny what is besides that, while it is the truthverifying that which they have. Say: Why then did you killAllah's Prophets before if you were indeed believers?
2/92 And most certainly Musa came to you with clear arguments,then you took the calf (for a god) in his absence and you wereunjust.
2/93 And when We made a covenant with you and raised the mountainover you: Take hold of what We have given you with firmness andbe obedient. They said: We hear and disobey. And they were madeto imbibe (the love of) the calf into their hearts on account oftheir unbelief Say: Evil is that which your belief bids you ifyou are believers.
2/94 Say: If the future abode with Allah is specially for you tothe exclusion of the people, then invoke death if you aretruthful.
2/95 And they will never invoke it on account of what their handshave sent before, and Allah knows the unjust.
2/96 And you will most certainly find them the greediest of menfor life (greedier) than even those who are polytheists; everyone of them loves that he should be granted a life of a thousandyears, and his being granted a long life will in no way removehim further off from the chastisement, and Allah sees what they do.
2/97 Say: Whoever is the enemy of Jibreel-- for surely he revealedit to your heart by Allah's command, verifying that which isbefore it and guidance and good news for the believers.
2/98 Whoever is the enemy of Allah and His angels and His messengersand Jibreel and Meekaeel, so surely Allah is the enemy of theunbelievers.
2/99 And certainly We have revealed to you clear communicationsand none disbelieve in them except the transgressors.
2/100 What! whenever they make a covenant, a party of them cast itaside? Nay, most of them do not believe.
2/101 And when there came to them a Messenger from Allah verifyingthat which they have, a party of those who were given the Bookthrew the Book of Allah behind their backs as if they knewnothing.
2/102 And they followed what the Shaitans chanted of sorcery inthe reign of Sulaiman, and Sulaiman was not an unbeliever, butthe Shaitans disbelieved, they taught men sorcery and that wassent down to the two angels at Babel, Harut and Marut, yet thesetwo taught no man until they had said, "Surely we are only atrial, therefore do not be a disbeliever." Even then men learnedfrom these two, magic by which they might cause a separationbetween a man and his wife; and they cannot hurt with it any oneexcept with Allah's permission, and they learned what harmedthem and did not profit them, and certainly they know that he whobought it should have no share of good in the hereafter and evilwas the price for which they sold their souls, had they butknown this.
2/103 And if they had believed and guarded themselves (againstevil), reward from Allah would certainly have been better; hadthey but known (this).
2/104 O you who believe! do not say Raina and say Unzurna andlisten, and for the unbelievers there is a painful chastisement.
2/105 Those who disbelieve from among the followers of the Book donot like, nor do the polytheists, that the good should be sentdown to you from your Lord, and Allah chooses especially whom Hepleases for His mercy, and Allah is the Lord of mighty grace.
2/106 Whatever communications We abrogate or cause to beforgotten, We bring one better than it or like it. Do you notknow that Allah has power over all things?
2/107 Do you not know that Allah's is the kingdom of the heavensand the earth, and that besides Allah you have no guardian orhelper?
2/108 Rather you wish to put questions to your Messenger, as Musawas questioned before; and whoever adopts unbelief instead offaith, he indeed has lost the right direction of the way.
2/109 Many of the followers of the Book wish that they could turnyou back into unbelievers after your faith, out of envy fromthemselves, (even) after the truth has become manifest to them;but pardon and forgive, so that Allah should bring about Hiscommand; surely Allah has power over all things.
2/110 And keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate and whatever goodyou send before for yourselves, you shall find it with Allah;surely Allah sees what you do.
2/111 And they say: None shall enter the garden (or paradise)except he who is a Jew or a Christian. These are their vaindesires. Say: Bring your proof if you are truthful.
2/112 Yes! whoever submits himself entirely to Allah and he isthe doer of good (to others) he has his reward from his Lord, andthere is no fear for him nor shall he grieve.
2/113 And the Jews say: The Christians do not follow anything(good) and the Christians say: The Jews do not follow anything(good) while they recite the (same) Book. Even thus say those whohave no knowledge, like to what they say; so Allah shalljudge between them on the day of resurrection in what theydiffer.
2/114 And who is more unjust than he who prevents (men)from the masjids of Allah, that His name should be rememberedin them, and strives to ruin them? (As for) these, it was notproper for them that they should have entered them except infear; they shall meet with disgrace in this world, and they shallhave great chastisement in the hereafter.
2/115 And Allah's is the East and the West, therefore, whitheryou turn, thither is Allah's purpose; surely Allah isAmplegiving,Knowing.
2/116 And they say: Allah has taken to himself a son. Glory beto Him; rather, whatever is in the heavens and the earth is His;all are obedient to Him.
2/117 Wonderful Originator of the heavens and the earth, andwhen He decrees an affair, He only says to it, Be, so there itis.
2/118 And those who have no knowledge say: Why does notAllah speak to us or a sign come to us? Even thus said thosebefore them, the like of what they say; their hearts are all alike.Indeed We have made the communications clear for a peoplewho are sure.
2/119 Surely We have sent you with the truth as a bearer ofgood news and as a warner, and you shall not be called upon toanswer for the companions of the flaming fire.
2/120 And the Jews will not be pleased with you, nor theChristians until you follow their religion. Say: Surely Allah'sguidance, that is the (true) guidance. And if you follow theirdesires after the knowledge that has come to you, you shall haveno guardian from Allah, nor any helper.
2/121 Those to whom We have given the Book read it as itought to be read. These believe in it; and whoever disbelieves init, these it is that are the losers.
2/122 O children of Israel, call to mind My favor which Ibestowed on you and that I made you excel the nations.
2/123 And be on your guard against a day when no soul shallavail another in the least neither shall any compensation beaccepted from it, nor shall intercession profit it, nor shallthey behelped.
2/124 And when his Lord tried Ibrahim with certain words, hefulfilled them. He said: Surely I will make you an Imam of men.Ibrahim said: And of my offspring? My covenant does notinclude the unjust, said He.
2/125 And when We made the House a pilgrimage for men and a (placeof) security, and: Appoint for yourselves a place of prayer onthe standing-place of Ibrahim. And We enjoined Ibrahim and Ismailsaying: Purify My House for those who visit (it) and those whoabide (in it) for devotion and those who bow down (and) those whoprostrate themselves.
2/126 And when Ibrahim said: My Lord, make it a secure town andprovide its people with fruits, such of them as believe in Allahand the last day. He said: And whoever disbelieves, I will granthim enjoyment for a short while, then I will drive him to thechastisement of the fire; and it is an evil destination.
2/127 And when Ibrahim and Ismail raised the foundations of theHouse: Our Lord! accept from us; surely Thou art the Hearing, theKnowing:
2/128 Our Lord! and make us both submissive to Thee and (raise)from our offspring a nation submitting to Thee, and show us ourways of devotion and turn to us (mercifully), surely Thou art theOft-returning (to mercy), the Merciful.
2/129 Our Lord! and raise up in them a Messenger from among themwho shall recite to them Thy communications and teach them theBook and the wisdom, and purify them; surely Thou art the Mighty,the Wise.
2/130 And who forsakes the religion of Ibrahim but he who makeshimself a fool, and most certainly We chose him in this world,and in the hereafter he is most surely among the righteous.
2/131 When his Lord said to him, Be a Muslim, he said: I submitmyself to the Lord of the worlds.
2/132 And the same did Ibrahim enjoin on his sons and (so did)Yaqoub. O my sons! surely Allah has chosen for you (this) faith,therefore die not unless you are Muslims.
2/133 Nay! were you witnesses when death visited Yaqoub, when hesaid to his sons: What will you serve after me? They said: Wewill serve your god and the god of your fathers, Ibrahim andIsmail and Ishaq, one Allah only, and to Him do we submit.
2/134 This is a people that have passed away; they shall have whatthey earned and you shall have what you earn, and you shall notbe called upon to answer for what they did.
2/135 And they say: Be Jews or Christians, you will be on theright course. Say: Nay! (we follow) the religion of Ibrahim, theHanif, and he was not one of the polytheists.
2/136 Say: We believe in Allah and (in) that which had beenrevealed to us, and (in) that which was revealed to Ibrahim andIsmail and Ishaq and Yaqoub and the tribes, and (in) that whichwas given to Musa and Isa, and (in) that which was given to theprophets from their Lord, we do not make any distinction betweenany of them, and to Him do we submit.
2/137 If then they believe as you believe in Him, they are indeedon the right course, and if they turn back, then they are only ingreat opposition, so Allah will suffice you against them, and Heis the Hearing, the Knowing.
2/138 (Receive) the baptism of Allah, and who is better than Allahin baptising? and Him do we serve.
2/139 Say: Do you dispute with us about Allah, and He is our Lordand your Lord, and we shall have our deeds and you shall haveyour deeds, and we are sincere to Him.
2/140 Nay! do you say that Ibrahim and Ismail and Yaqoub and thetribes were Jews or Christians? Say: Are you better knowing orAllah? And who is more unjust than he who conceals a testimonythat he has from Allah? And Allah is not at all heedless of whatyou do.
2/141 This is a people that have passed away; they shall have whatthey earned and you shall have what you earn, and youshall not be called upon to answer for what they did.
2/142 The fools among the people will say: What has turned themfrom their qiblah which they had? Say: The East and the Westbelong only to Allah; He guides whom He likes to the right path.
2/143 And thus We have made you a medium (just) nation that youmay be the bearers of witness to the people and (that) theMessenger may be a bearer of witness to you; and We did not makethat which you would have to be the qiblah but that We mightdistinguish him who follows the Messenger from him who turns backupon his heels, and this was surely hard except for those whomAllah has guided aright; and Allah was not going to make yourfaith to be fruitless; most surely Allah is Affectionate,Merciful to the people.
2/144 Indeed We see the turning of your face to heaven, so Weshall surely turn you to a qiblah which you shall like; turn thenyour face towards the Sacred Mosque, and wherever you are, turnyour face towards it, and those who have been given the Book mostsurely know that it is the truth from their Lord; and Allah isnot at all heedless of what they do.
2/145 And even if you bring to those who have been given theBook every sign they would not follow your qiblah, nor can you bea follower of their qiblah, neither are they the followers ofeach other's qiblah, and if you follow their desires after theknowledge that has come to you, then you shall most surely beamong the unjust.
2/146 Those whom We have given the Book recognize him as theyrecognize their sons, and a party of them most surely conceal thetruth while they know (it).
2/147 The truth is from your Lord, therefore you should not be ofthe doubters.
2/148 And every one has a direction to which he should turn,therefore hasten to (do) good works; wherever you are, Allah willbring you all together; surely Allah has power over all things.
2/149 And from whatsoever place you come forth, turn yourface towards the Sacred Mosque; and surely it is the very truthfrom your Lord, and Allah is not at all heedless of what you do.
2/150 And from whatsoever place you come forth, turn yourface towards the Sacred Mosque; and wherever you are turnyour faces towards it, so that people shall have no accusationagainst you, except such of them as are unjust; so do not fearthem, and fear Me, that I may complete My favor on you andthat you may walk on the right course.
2/151 Even as We have sent among you a Messenger from among you whorecites to you Our communications and purifies you and teachesyou the Book and the wisdom and teaches you that which you didnot know.
2/152 Therefore remember Me, I will remember you, and be thankfulto Me, and do not be ungrateful to Me.
2/153 O you who believe! seek assistance through patience andprayer; surely Allah is with the patient.
2/154 And do not speak of those who are slain in Allah's way asdead; nay, (they are) alive, but you do not perceive.
2/155 And We will most certainly try you with somewhat of fear andhunger and loss of property and lives and fruits; and give goodnews to the patient,
2/156 Who, when a misfortune befalls them, say: Surely we areAllah's and to Him we shall surely return.
2/157 Those are they on whom are blessings and mercy from theirLord, and those are the followers of the right course.
2/158 Surely the Safa and the Marwa are among the signs appointedby Allah; so whoever makes a pilgrimage to the House or pays avisit (to it), there is no blame on him if he goes round themboth; and whoever does good spontaneously, then surely Allah isGrateful, Knowing.
2/159 Surely those who conceal the clear proofs and the guidancethat We revealed after We made it clear in the Book for men,these it is whom Allah shall curse, and those who curse shallcurse them (too).
2/160 Except those who repent and amend and make manifest (thetruth), these it is to whom I turn (mercifully); and I am theOft-returning (to mercy), the Merciful.
2/161 Surely those who disbelieve and die while they aredisbelievers, these it is on whom is the curse of Allah and theangels and men all;
2/162 Abiding in it; their chastisement shall not be lightened norshall they be given respite.
2/163 And your Allah is one Allah! there is no god but He; He is theBeneficent, the Merciful.
2/164 Most surely in the creation of the heavens and the earthand the alternation of the night and the day, and the ships thatrun in the sea with that which profits men, and the water thatAllah sends down from the cloud, then gives life with it to theearth after its death and spreads in it all (kinds of) animals, andthe changing of the winds and the clouds made subservientbetween the heaven and the earth, there are signs for a peoplewho understand.
2/165 And there are some among men who take for themselvesobjects of worship besides Allah, whom they love as they loveAllah, and those who believe are stronger in love for Allah andO, that those who are unjust had seen, when they see thechastisement, that the power is wholly Allah's and that Allah issevere in requiting (evil).
2/166 When those who were followed shall renounce those whofollowed (them), and they see the chastisement and their ties arecut asunder.
2/167 And those who followed shall say: Had there been for us areturn, then we would renounce them as they have renounced us.Thus will Allah show them their deeds to be intense regret tothem, and they shall not come forth from the fire.
2/168 O men! eat the lawful and good things out of what is in theearth, and do not follow the footsteps of the Shaitan; surely heis your open enemy.
2/169 He only enjoins you evil and indecency, and that you mayspeak against Allah what you do not know.
2/170 And when it is said to them, Follow what Allah hasrevealed, they say: Nay! we follow what we found our fathersupon. What! and though their fathers had no sense at all, nor didthey follow the right way.
2/171 And the parable of those who disbelieve is as the parable ofone who calls out to that which hears no more than a call and acry; deaf, dumb (and) blind, so they do not understand.
2/172 O you who believe! eat of the good things that We haveprovided you with, and give thanks to Allah if Him it is that youserve.
2/173 He has only forbidden you what dies of itself, and blood,and flesh of swine, and that over which any other (name) than(that of) Allah has been invoked; but whoever is driven tonecessity, not desiring, nor exceeding the limit, no sin shall beupon him; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
2/174 Surely those who conceal any part of the Book thatAllah has revealed and take for it a small price, they eatnothing but fire into their bellies, and Allah will not speak tothem on the day of resurrection, nor will He purify them, andthey shall have a painful chastisement.
2/175 These are they who buy error for the right direction andchastisement for forgiveness; how bold they are to encounterfire.
2/176 This is because Allah has revealed the Book with the truth;and surely those who go against the Book are in a greatopposition.
2/177 It is not righteousness that you turn your faces towards theEast and the West, but righteousness is this that one shouldbelieve in Allah and the last day and the angels and the Book andthe prophets, and give away wealth out of love for Him to thenear of kin and the orphans and the needy and the wayfarer andthe beggars and for (the emancipation of) the captives, and keepup prayer and pay the poor-rate; and the performers of theirpromise when they make a promise, and the patient in distress andaffliction and in time of conflicts-- these are they who are true(to themselves) and these are they who guard (against evil).
2/178 O you who believe! retaliation is prescribed for you in thematter of the slain, the free for the free, and the slave for theslave, and the female for the female, but if any remission ismade to any one by his (aggrieved) brother, then prosecution (for thebloodwit) should be made according to usage, and payment shouldbe made to him in a good manner; this is an alleviationfrom your Lord and a mercy; so whoever exceeds the limit afterthis he shall have a painful chastisement.
2/179 And there is life for you in (the law of) retaliation, O menof understanding, that you may guard yourselves.
2/180 Bequest is prescribed for you when death approachesone of you, if he leaves behind wealth for parents and nearrelatives, according to usage, a duty (incumbent) upon thosewho guard (against evil).
2/181 Whoever then alters it after he has heard it, the sin of itthen is only upon those who alter it; surely Allah is Hearing,Knowing.
2/182 But he who fears an inclination to a wrong course or anact of disobedience on the part of the testator, and effects anagreement between the parties, there is no blame on him. SurelyAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
2/183 O you who believe! fasting is prescribed for you, as it wasprescribed for those before you, so that you may guard (againstevil).
2/184 For a certain number of days; but whoever among you issick or on a journey, then (he shall fast) a (like) number of otherdays; and those who are not able to do it may effect a redemptionby feeding a poor man; so whoever does good spontaneouslyit is better for him; and that you fast is better for you if youknow.
2/185 The month of Ramazan is that in which the Quran wasrevealed, a guidance to men and clear proofs of the guidance andthe distinction; therefore whoever of you is present in the month,he shall fast therein, and whoever is sick or upon a journey, then(he shall fast) a (like) number of other days; Allah desires easefor you, and He does not desire for you difficulty, and (Hedesires) that you should complete the number and that youshould exalt the greatness of Allah for His having guided youand that you may give thanks.
2/186 And when My servants ask you concerning Me, then surely I amvery near; I answer the prayer of the suppliant when he calls onMe, so they should answer My call and believe in Me that they maywalk in the right way.
2/187 It is made lawful to you to go into your wives on thenight of the fast; they are an apparel for you and you are anapparel for them; Allah knew that you acted unfaithfully toyourselves, so He has turned to you (mercifully) and removed fromyou (this burden); so now be in contact with them and seekwhat Allah has ordained for you, and eat and drink until thewhiteness of the day becomes distinct from the blackness of thenight at dawn, then complete the fast till night, and have notcontact with them while you keep to the mosques; these are thelimits of Allah, so do not go near them. Thus does Allah makeclear His communications for men that they may guard (againstevil).
2/188 And do not swallow up your property among yourselves byfalse means, neither seek to gain access thereby to the judges,so that you may swallow up a part of the property of menwrongfully while you know.
2/189 They ask you concerning the new moon. Say: They are timesappointed for (the benefit of) men, and (for) the pilgrimage; andit is not righteousness that you should enter the houses at theirbacks, but righteousness is this that one should guard (againstevil); and go into the houses by their doors and be careful (ofyour duty) to Allah, that you may be successful.
2/190 And fight in the way of Allah with those who fight with you,and do not exceed the limits, surely Allah does not love thosewho exceed the limits.
2/191 And kill them wherever you find them, and drive them outfrom whence they drove you out, and persecution is severer thanslaughter, and do not fight with them at the Sacred Mosqueuntil they fight with you in it, but if they do fight you, then slaythem; such is the recompense of the unbelievers.
2/192 But if they desist, then surely Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
2/193 And fight with them until there is no persecution, andreligion should be only for Allah, but if they desist, then thereshould be no hostility except against the oppressors.
2/194 The Sacred month for the sacred month and all sacred thingsare (under the law of) retaliation; whoever then actsaggressively against you, inflict injury on him according to theinjury he has inflicted on you and be careful (of your duty) toAllah and know that Allah is with those who guard (against evil).
2/195 And spend in the way of Allah and cast not yourselves toperdition with your own hands, and do good (to others); surelyAllah loves the doers of good.
2/196 And accomplish the pilgrimage and the visit for Allah, butif, you are prevented, (send) whatever offering is easy toobtain, and do not shave your heads until the offering reachesits destination; but whoever among you is sick or has an ailmentof the head, he (should effect) a compensation by fasting or almsor sacrificing, then when you are secure, whoever profits bycombining the visit with the pilgrimage (should take) whatoffering is easy to obtain; but he who cannot find (any offering)should fast for three days during the pilgrimage and for sevendays when you return; these (make) ten (days) complete; this isfor him whose family is not present in the Sacred Mosque, and becareful (of your duty) to Allah, and know that Allah is severe inrequiting (evil).
2/197 The pilgrimage is (performed in) the well-known months; sowhoever determines the performance of the pilgrimage therein,there shall be no intercourse nor fornication nor quarrellingamongst one another; and whatever good you do, Allah knows it;and make provision, for surely the provision is the guarding ofoneself, and be careful (of your duty) to Me, O men ofunderstanding.
2/198 There is no blame on you in seeking bounty from your Lord,so when you hasten on from "Arafat", then remember Allah near theHoly Monument, and remember Him as He has guided you, thoughbefore that you were certainly of the erringones.
2/199 Then hasten on from the Place from which the people hastenon and ask the forgiveness of Allah; surely Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
2/200 So when you have performed your devotions, then laud Allahas you lauded your fathers, rather a greater lauding. Butthere are some people who say, Our Lord! give us in the world,and they shall have no resting place.
2/201 And there are some among them who say: Our Lord! grant usgood in this world and good in the hereafter, and save us fromthe chastisement of the fire.
2/202 They shall have (their) portion of what they have earned,and Allah is swift in reckoning.
2/203 And laud Allah during the numbered days; then whoeverhastens off in two days, there is no blame on him, and whoeverremains behind, there is no blame on him, (this is) for him whoguards (against evil), and be careful (of your duty) to Allah,andknow that you shall be gathered together to Him.
2/204 And among men is he whose speech about the life of thisworld causes you to wonder, and he calls on Allah to witness asto what is in his heart, yet he is the most violent ofadversaries.
2/205 And when he turn,s back, he runs along in the land that hemay cause mischief in it and destroy the tilth and the stock, andAllah does not love mischief-making.
2/206 And when it is said to him, guard against (the punish mentof) Allah; pride carries him off to sin, therefore hell issufficient for him; and certainly it is an evil resting place.
2/207 And among men is he who sells himself to seek the pleasureof Allah; and Allah is Affectionate to the servants.
2/208 O you who believe! enter into submission one and all and donot follow the footsteps of Shaitan; surely he is your openenemy.
2/209 But if you slip after clear arguments have come to you, thenknow that Allah is Mighty, Wise.
2/210 They do not wait aught but that Allah should come to them inthe shadows of the clouds along with the angels, and the matterhas (already) been decided; and (all) matters are returned toAllah.
2/211 Ask the Israelites how many a clear sign have We given them;and whoever changes the favor of Allah after it has come to him,then surely Allah is severe in requiting (evil).
2/212 The life of this world is made to seem fair to those whodisbelieve, and they mock those who believe, and those who guard(against evil) shall be above them on the day of resurrection;and Allah gives means of subsistence to whom he pleases withoutmeasure.
2/213 (All) people are a single nation; so Allah raised prophetsas bearers of good news and as warners, and He revealed with themthe Book with truth, that it might judge between people in thatin which they differed; and none but the very people who weregiven it differed about it after clear arguments had come tothem, revolting among themselves; so Allah has guided by His willthose who believe to the truth about which they differed andAllah guides whom He pleases to the right path.
2/214 Or do you think that you would enter the garden while yetthe state of those who have passed away before you has not comeupon you; distress and affliction befell them and they wereshaken violently, so that the Messenger and those who believed withhim said: When will the help of Allah come? Now surely the helpof Allah is nigh!
2/215 They ask you as to what they should spend. Say: Whateverwealth you spend, it is for the parents and the near of kin andthe orphans and the needy and the wayfarer, and whatever good youdo, Allah surely knows it.
2/216 Fighting is enjoined on you, and h is an object of disliketo you; and it may be that you dislike a thing while it is goodfor you, and it may be that you love a thing while it is evil foryou, and Allah knows, while you do not know.
2/217 They ask you concerning the sacred month about fighting init. Say: Fighting in it is a grave matter, and hindering (men)from Allah's way and denying Him, and (hindering men from) theSacred Mosque and turning its people out of it, are still graverwith Allah, and persecution is graver than slaughter; and theywill not cease fighting with you until they turn you back fromyour religion, if they can; and whoever of you turns back fromhis religion, then he dies while an unbeliever-- these it is whoseworks shall go for nothing in this world and the hereafter, andthey are the inmates of the fire; therein they shall abide.
2/218 Surely those who believed and those who fled (their home)and strove hard in the way of Allah these hope for the mercy ofAllah and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
2/219 They ask you about intoxicants and games of chance. Say: Inboth of them there is a great sin and means of profit for men,and their sin is greater than their profit. And they ask you asto what they should spend. Say: What you can spare. Thus doesAllah make clear to you the communications, that you may ponder
2/220 On this world and the hereafter. And they ask you concerningthe orphans Say: To set right for them (their affairs) is good,and if you become co-partners with them, they are your brethren;and Allah knows the mischief-maker and the pacemaker, and ifAllah had pleased, He would certainly have caused you to fallinto a difficulty; surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
2/221 And do not marry the idolatresses until they believe, andcertainly a believing maid is better than an idolatress woman,even though she should please you; and do not give (believingwomen) in marriage to idolaters until they believe, and certainlya believing servant is better than an idolater, even though heshould please you; these invite to the fire, and Allah invites tothe garden and to forgiveness by His will, and makes clear Hiscommunications to men, that they may be mindful.
2/222 And they ask you about menstruation. Say: It is adiscomfort; therefore keep aloof from the women during themenstrual discharge and do not go near them until they havebecome clean; then when they have cleansed themselves, go in tothem as Allah has commanded you; surely Allah loves those whoturn much (to Him), and He loves those who purify themselves.
2/223 Your wives are a tilth for you, so go into your tilth whenyou like, and do good beforehand for yourselves, and be careful(of your duty) to Allah, and know that you will meet Him, andgive good news to the believers.
2/224 And make not Allah because of your swearing (by Him) anobstacle to your doing good and guarding (against evil) andmaking peace between men, and Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
2/225 Allah does not call you to account for what is vain in youroaths, but He will call you to account for what your hearts haveearned, and Allah is Forgiving, Forbearing.
2/226 Those who swear that they will not go in to their wivesshould wait four months; so if they go back, then Allah is surelyForgiving, Merciful.
2/227 And if they have resolved on a divorce, then Allah is surelyHearing, Knowing.
2/228 And the divorced women should keep themselves in waiting forthree courses; and it is not lawful for them that they shouldconceal what Allah has created in their wombs, if they believe inAllah and the last day; and their husbands have a better right totake them back in the meanwhile if they wish for reconciliation;and they have rights similar to those against them in a justmanner, and the men are a degree above them, and Allah is Mighty,Wise.
2/229 Divorce may be (pronounced) twice, then keep (them) in goodfellowship or let (them) go with kindness; and it is not lawfulfor you to take any part of what you have given them, unless bothfear that they cannot keep within the limits of Allah; then ifyou fear that they cannot keep within the limits of Allah, thereis no blame on them for what she gives up to become free thereby.These are the limits of Allah, so do not exceed them and whoeverexceeds the limits of Allah these it is that are the unjust.
2/230 So if he divorces her she shall not be lawful to himafterwards until she marries another husband; then if he divorcesher there is no blame on them both if they return to each other(by marriage), if they think that they can keep within the limitsof Allah, and these are the limits of Allah which He makes clearfor a people who know.
2/231 And when you divorce women and they reach their prescribedtime, then either retain them in good fellowship or set them freewith liberality, and do not retain them for injury, so that youexceed the limits, and whoever does this, he indeed is unjust tohis own soul; and do not take Allah's communicationsfor a mockery, and remember the favor of Allah upon you, andthat which He has revealed to you of the Book and the Wisdom,admonishing you thereby; and be careful (of your duty to) Allah,and know that Allah is the Knower of all things.
2/232 And when you have divorced women and they have ended-- theirterm (of waiting), then do not prevent them from marrying theirhusbands when they agree among themselves in a lawful manner;with this is admonished he among you who believes in Allah andthe last day, this is more profitable and purer for you; andAllah knows while you do not know.
2/233 And the mothers should suckle their children for two wholeyears for him who desires to make complete the time of suckling;and their maintenance and their clothing must be-- borne by thefather according to usage; no soul shall have imposed upon it aduty but to the extent of its capacity; neither shall a mother bemade to suffer harm on account of her child, nor a father onaccount of his child, and a similar duty (devolves) on the(father's) heir, but if both desire weaning by mutual consent andcounsel, there is no blame on them, and if you wish to engage awet-nurse for your children, there is no blame on youso long as you pay what you promised for according to usage;and be careful of (your duty to) Allah and know that Allah seeswhat you do.
2/234 And (as for) those of you who die and leave wives behind,they should keep themselves in waiting for four months and tendays; then when they have fully attained their term, there is noblame on you for what they do for themselves in a lawful manner;and Allah is aware of what you do.
2/235 And there is no blame on you respecting that which you speakindirectly in the asking of (such) women in marriage or keep (theproposal) concealed within your minds; Allah knows that you winmention them, but do not give them a promise in secret unless youspeak in a lawful manner, and do not confirm the marriage tieuntil the writing is fulfilled, and know that Allah knows what isin your minds, therefore beware of Him, and know that Allah isForgiving, Forbearing.
2/236 There is no blame on you if you divorce women when you havenot touched them or appointed for them a portion, and makeprovision for them, the wealthy according to his means and thestraitened in circumstances according to his means, a provisionaccording to usage; (this is) a duty on the doers of good (toothers).
2/237 And if you divorce them before you have touched themand you have appointed for them a portion, then (pay to them)ha!f of what you have appointed, unless they relinquish or heshould relinquish in whose hand is the marriage tie; and it isnearer to righteousness that you should relinquish; and do notneglect the giving of free gifts between you; surely Allah seeswhat you do.
2/238 Attend constantly to prayers and to the middle prayer andstand up truly obedient to Allah.
2/239 But if you are in danger, then (say your prayers) on foot oron horseback; and when you are secure, then remember Allah, as.He has taught you what you did not know.
2/240 And those of you who die and leave wives behind, (make) abequest in favor of their wives of maintenance for a year withoutturning (them) out, then if they themselves go away, there is noblame on you for what they do of lawful deeds by themselves, andAllah is Mighty, Wise.
2/241 And for the divorced women (too) provision (must be made)according to usage; (this is) a duty on those who guard (againstevil).
2/242 Allah thus makes clear to you His communications that youmay understand.
2/243 Have you not considered those who went forth from theirhomes, for fear of death, and they were thousands, then Allahsaid to them, Die; again He gave them life; most surely Allah isGracious to people, but most people are not grateful.
2/244 And fight in the way of Allah, and know that Allah isHearing, Knowing.
2/245 Who is it that will offer of Allah a goodly gift, so He willmultiply it to him manifold, and Allah straitens and amplifies,and you shall be returned to Him.
2/246 Have you not considered the chiefs of the children of Israelafter Musa, when they said to a prophet of theirs: Raise up forus a king, (that) we may fight in the way of Allah. He said: Mayit not be that you would not fight if fighting is ordained foryou? They said: And what reason have we that we should notfight in the way of Allah, and we have indeed been compelled toabandon our homes and our children. But when fighting wasordained for them, they turned back, except a few of them, andAllah knows the unjust.
2/247 And their prophet said to them: Surely Allah has raisedTalut to be a king over you. They said: How can he hold kingshipover us while we have a greater right to kingship thanhe, and he has not been granted an abundance of wealth? Hesaid: Surely Allah has chosen him in preference to you, and Hehas increased him abundantly in knowledge and physique, andAllah grants His kingdom to whom He pleases, and Allah isAmplegiving, Knowing.
2/248 And the prophet said to them: Surely the sign of Hiskingdom is, that there shall come to you the chest in which thereis tranquillity from your Lord and residue of the relics of whatthe children of Musa and the children of Haroun have left, theangels bearing it; most surely there is a sign in this for those whobelieve.
2/249 So when Talut departed with the forces, he said: SurelyAllah will try you with a river; whoever then drinks from it, he isnot of me, and whoever does not taste of it, he is surely of me,except he who takes with his hand as much of it as fills the hand;but with the exception of a few of them they drank from it. Sowhen he had crossed it, he and those who believed with him, theysaid: We have today no power against Jalut and his forces.Those who were sure that they would meet their Lord said: Howoften has a small party vanquished a numerous host by Allah'spermission, and Allah is with the patient.
2/250 And when they went out against Jalut and his forces theysaid: Our Lord, pour down upon us patience, and make oursteps firm and assist us against the unbelieving people.
2/251 So they put them to flight by Allah's permission. AndDawood slew Jalut, and Allah gave him kingdom and wisdom,and taught him of what He pleased. And were it not for Allah'srepelling some men with others, the earth would certainly be in astate of disorder; but Allah is Gracious to the creatures.
2/252 These are the communications of Allah: We recite themto you with truth; and most surely you are (one) of themessengers.
2/253 We have made some of these messengers to excel the othersamong them are they to whom Allah spoke, and some of themHe exalted by (many degrees of) rank; and We gave clearmiracles to Isa son of Marium, and strengthened him with theholy spirit. And if Allah had pleased, those after them would nothave fought one with another after clear arguments had come tothem, but they disagreed; so there were some of them whobelieved and others who denied; and if Allah had pleased theywould not have fought one with another, but Allah brings aboutwhat He intends.
2/254 O you who believe! spend out of what We have given youbefore the day comes in which there is no bargaining, neither anyfriendship nor intercession, and the unbelievers-- they are theunjust.
2/255 Allah is He besides Whom there is no god, the Everliving,the Self-subsisting by Whom all subsist; slumber does notovertake Him nor sleep; whatever is in the heavens and whateveris in the earth is His; who is he that can intercede with Him butby His permission? He knows what is before them and what isbehind them, and they cannot comprehend anything out of Hisknowledge except what He pleases, His knowledge extends over theheavens and the earth, and the preservation of them both tiresHim not, and He is the Most High, the Great.
2/256 There is no compulsion in religion; truly the right way hasbecome clearly distinct from error; therefore, whoeverdisbelieves in the Shaitan and believes in Allah he indeed haslaid hold on the firmest handle, which shall not break off, andAllah is Hearing, Knowing.
2/257 Allah is the guardian of those who believe. He brings themout of the darkness into the light; and (as to) those whodisbelieve, their guardians are Shaitans who take them out of thelight into the darkness; they are the inmates of the fire, in itthey shall abide.
2/258 Have you not considered him (Namrud) who disputed withIbrahim about his Lord, because Allah had given him the kingdom?When Ibrahim said: My Lord is He who gives life and causes todie, he said: I give life and cause death. Ibrahim said: Sosurely Allah causes the sun to rise from the east, then make itrise from the west; thus he who disbelieved was confounded; andAllah does not guide aright the unjust people.
2/259 Or the like of him (Uzair) who passed by a town, and it hadfallen down upon its roofs; he said: When will Allah give it lifeafter its death? So Allah caused him to die for a hundred years,then raised him to life. He said: How long have you tarried? Hesaid: I have tarried a day, or a part of a day. Said He: Nay! youhave tarried a hundred years; then look at your food anddrink-- years have not passed over it; and look at your ass; andthat We may make you a sign to men, and look at the bones, how Weset them together, then clothed them with flesh; so when itbecame clear to him, he said: I know that Allah has power overall things.
2/260 And when Ibrahim said: My Lord! show me how Thougivest life to the dead, He said: What! and do you not believe?He said: Yes, but that my heart may be at ease. He said: Thentake four of the birds, then train them to follow you, then placeon every mountain a part of them, then call them, they will cometo you flying; and know that Allah is Mighty, Wise.
2/261 The parable of those who spend their property in the way ofAllah is as the parable of a grain growing seven ears (with) ahundred grains in every ear; and Allah multiplies for whom Hepleases; and Allah is Ample-giving, Knowing
2/262 (As for) those who spend their property in the way of Allah,then do not follow up what they have spent with reproachor injury, they shall have their reward from their Lord, and theyshall have no fear nor shall they grieve.
2/263 Kind speech and forgiveness is better than charity followedby injury; and Allah is Self-sufficient, Forbearing.
2/264 O you who believe! do not make your charity worthlessby reproach and injury, like him who spends his property to beseen of men and does not believe in Allah and the last day; so hisparable is as the parable of a smooth rock with earth upon it,then a heavy rain falls upon it, so it leaves it bare; they shall notbe able to gain anything of what they have earned; and Allahdoes not guide the unbelieving people.
2/265 And the parable of those who spend their property toseek the pleasure of Allah and for the certainty 'of their souls is asthe parable of a garden on an elevated ground, upon whichheavy rain falls so it brings forth its fruit twofold but if heavyrain does not fall upon it, then light rain (is sufficient); and Allahsees what you do.
2/266 Does one of you like that he should have a garden ofpalms and vines with streams flowing beneath it; he has in it allkinds of fruits; and old age has overtaken him and he has weakoffspring, when, (lo!) a whirlwind with fire in it smites it so itbecomes blasted; thus Allah makes the communications clear toyou, that you may reflect.
2/267 O you who believe! spend (benevolently) of the goodthings that you earn and or what We have brought forth for youout of the earth, and do not aim at what is bad that you mayspend (in alms) of it, while you would not take it yourselvesunless you have its price lowered, and know that Allah is Self-sufficient,Praiseworthy.
2/268 Shaitan threatens you with poverty and enjoins you to beniggardly, and Allah promises you forgiveness from Himself andabundance; and Allah is Ample-giving, Knowing.
2/269 He grants wisdom to whom He pleases, and whoever is grantedwisdom, he indeed is given a great good and none but men ofunderstanding mind.
2/270 And whatever alms you give or (whatever) vow you vow, surelyAllah knows it; and the unjust shall have no helpers.
2/271 If you give alms openly, it is well, and if you hide it andgive it to the poor, it is better for you; and this will do awaywith some of your evil deeds; and Allah is aware of what you do.
2/272 To make them walk in the right way is not incumbent on you,but Allah guides aright whom He pleases; and whatever good thingyou spend, it is to your own good; and you do not spend but toseek Allah's pleasure; and whatever good things you spend shallbe paid back to you in full, and you shall not be wronged.
2/273 (Alms are) for the poor who are confined in the way ofAllah-- they cannot go about in the land; the ignorant man thinksthem to be rich on account of (their) abstaining (from begging);you can recognise them by their mark; they do not beg from menimportunately; and whatever good thing you spend, surely Allahknows it.
2/274 (As for) those who spend their property by night and by day,secretly and openly, they shall have their reward from their Lordand they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/275 Those who swallow down usury cannot arise except as one whomShaitan has prostrated by (his) touch does rise. That is becausethey say, trading is only like usury; and Allah has allowedtrading and forbidden usury. To whomsoever then the admonitionhas come from his Lord, then he desists, he shall have what hasalready passed, and his affair is in the hands of Allah; andwhoever returns (to it)-- these arc the inmates of the fire; theyshall abide in it.
2/276 Allah does not bless usury, and He causes charitable deedsto prosper, and Allah does not love any ungrateful sinner.
2/277 Surely they who believe and do good deeds and keep up prayerand pay the poor-rate they shall have their reward from theirLord, and they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
2/278 O you who believe! Be careful of (your duty to) Allah andrelinquish what remains (due) from usury, if you are believers.
2/279 But if you do (it) not, then be apprised of war from Allahand His Messenger; and if you repent, then you shall have yourcapital; neither shall you make (the debtor) suffer loss, nor shallyou be made to suffer loss.
2/280 And if (the debtor) is in straitness, then let there bepostponement until (he is in) ease; and that you remit (it) as almsis better for you, if you knew.
2/281 And guard yourselves against a day in which you shall bereturned to Allah; then every soul shall be paid back in fullwhat it has earned, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.
2/282 O you who believe! when you deal with each other incontracting a debt for a fixed time, then write it down; and let ascribe write it down between you with fairness; and the scribeshould not refuse to write as Allah has taught him, so he shouldwrite; and let him who owes the debt dictate, and he should becareful of (his duty to) Allah, his Lord, and not diminish anythingfrom it; but if he who owes the debt is unsound in understanding,or weak, or (if) he is not able to dictate himself, let hisguardian dictate with fairness; and call in to witness from amongyour men two witnesses; but if there are not two men, then oneman and two women from among those whom you choose to bewitnesses, so that if one of the two errs, the second of the twomay remind the other; and the witnesses should not refuse whenthey are summoned; and be not averse to writing it (whether it is)small or large, with the time of its falling due; this is moreequitable in the sight of Allah and assures greater accuracy intestimony, and the nearest (way) that you may not entertaindoubts (afterwards), except when it is ready merchandise whichyou give and take among yourselves from hand to hand, thenthere is no blame on you in not writing it down; and havewitnesses when you barter with one another, and let no harm bedone to the scribe or to the witness; and if you do (it) then surelyit will be a transgression in you, and be careful of (your duty) toAllah, Allah teaches you, and Allah knows all things.
2/283 And if you are upon a journey and you do not find ascribe, then (there may be) a security taken into possession; butif one of you trusts another, then he who is trusted should deliverhis trust, and let him be careful (of his duty to) Allah, his Lord;and do not conceal testimony, and whoever conceals it, his heartis surely sinful; and Allah knows what you do.
2/284 Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth isAllah's; and whether you manifest what is in your minds or hideit, Allah will call you to account according to it; then He willforgive whom He pleases and chastise whom He pleases, and Allahhas power over all things.
2/285 The messenger believes in what has been revealed to him fromhis Lord, and (so do) the believers; they all believe in Allahand His angels and His books and His messengers; We make nodifference between any of His messengers; and they say: We hear andobey, our Lord! Thy forgiveness (do we crave), and to Thee is theeventual course.
2/286 Allah does not impose upon any soul a duty but to the extentof its ability; for it is (the benefit of) what it has earned andupon it (the evil of) what it has wrought: Our Lord! do notpunish us if we forget or make a mistake; Our Lord! do not lay onus a burden as Thou didst lay on those before us, Our Lord do notimpose upon us that which we have not the strength to bear; andpardon us and grant us protection and have mercy on us, Thou artour Patron, so help us against the unbelieving people.
