6/1 All praise is due to Allah, Who created the heavens and theearth and made the darkness and the light; yet those who disbelieveset up equals with their Lord.
6/2 He it is Who created you from clay, then He decreed aterm; and there is a term named with Him; still you doubt.
6/3 And He is Allah in the heavens and in the earth; He knowsyour secret (thoughts) and your open (words), and He knowswhat you earn.
6/4 And there does not come to them any communication ofthe communications of their Lord but they turn aside from it
6/5 So they have indeed rejected the truth when it came tothem; therefore the truth of what they mocked at will shine uponthem.
6/6 Do they not consider how many a generation We havedestroyed before them, whom We had established in the earth asWe have not established you, and We sent the clouds pouringrain on them in abundance, and We made the rivers to flowbeneath them, then We destroyed them on account of their faultsand raised up after them another generation.
6/7 And if We had sent to you a writing on a paper, then theyhad touched it with their hands, certainly those who disbelievewould have said: This is nothing but clear enchantment.
6/8 And they say: Why has not an angel been sent down tohim? And had We sent down an angel, the matter would havecertainly been decided and then they would not have beenrespited.
6/9 And if We had made him angel, We would certainly havemade him a man, and We would certainly have made confusedto them what they make confused.
6/10 And certainly messengers before you were mocked at, butthat which they mocked at encompassed the scoffers amongthem.
6/11 Say: Travel in the land, then see what was the end of therejecters.
6/12 Say: To whom belongs what is in the heavens and theearth? Say: To Allah; He has ordained mercy on Himself; mostcertainly He will gather you on the resurrection day-- there is nodoubt about it. (As for) those who have lost their souls, they willnot believe.
6/13 And to Him belongs whatever dwells in the night and theday; and He is the Hearing, the Knowing.
6/14 Say: Shall I take a guardian besides Allah, the Originatorof the heavens and the earth, and He feeds (others) and is not(Himself) fed. Say: I am commanded to be the first who submitshimself, and you should not be of the polytheists.
6/15 Say: Surely I fear, if I disobey my Lord, the chastisementof a grievous day.
6/16 He from whom it is averted on that day, Allah indeed hasshown mercy to him; and this is a manifest achievement.
6/17 And if Allah touch you with affliction, there is none totake it off but He; and if He visit you with good, then He haspower over all things.
6/18 And He is the Supreme, above His servants; and He is theWise, the Aware.
6/19 Say: What thing is the weightiest in testimony? Say: Allahis witness between you and me; and this Quran has been revealedto me that with it I may warn you and whomsoever it reaches.Do you really bear witness that there are other gods with Allah?Say: I do not bear witness. Say: He is only one Allah, and surely Iam clear of that which you set up (with Him).
6/20 Those whom We have given the Book recognize him asthey recognize their sons; (as for) those who have lost their souls,they will not believe.
6/21 And who is more unjust than he who forges a lie againstAllah or (he who) gives the lie to His communications; surely theunjust will not be successful.
6/22 And on the day when We shall gather them all together,then shall We say to those who associated others (with Allah):Where are your associates whom you asserted?
6/23 Then their excuse would be nothing but that they wouldsay: By Allah, our Lord, we were not polytheists.
6/24 See how they lie against their own souls, and that whichthey forged has passed away from them.
6/25 And of them is he who hearkens to you, and We have castveils over their hearts lest they understand it and a heaviness intotheir ears; and even if they see every sign they will not believe init; so much so that when they come to you they only dispute withyou; those who disbelieve say: This is naught but the stories ofthe ancients.
6/26 And they prohibit (others) from it and go far away fromit, and they only bring destruction upon their own souls whilethey do not perceive.
6/27 And could you see when they are made to stand before thefire, then they shall say: Would that we were sent back, and wewould not reject the communications of our Lord and we wouldbe of the believers.
6/28 Nay, what they concealed before shall become manifest tothem; and if they were sent back, they would certainly go back tothat which they are forbidden, and most surely they are liars.
6/29 And they say: There is nothing but our life of this world,and we shall not be raised.
6/30 And could you see when they are made to stand beforetheir Lord. He will say: Is not this the truth? They will say: Yea!by our Lord. He will say: Taste then the chastisement becauseyou disbelieved.
6/31 They are losers indeed who reject the meeting of Allah;until when the hour comes upon them all of a sudden they shallsay: O our grief for our neglecting it! and they shall bear theirburdens on their backs; now surely evil is that which they bear.
6/32 And this world's life is naught but a play and an idle sportand certainly the abode of the hereafter is better for those whoguard (against evil); do you not then understand?
6/33 We know indeed that what they say certainly grieves you,but surely they do not call you a liar; but the unjust deny thecommunications of Allah.
6/34 And certainly messengers before you were rejected, but theywere patient on being rejected and persecuted until Our helpcame to them; and there is none to change the words of Allah,and certainly there has come to you some information about themessengers.
6/35 And if their turning away is hard on you, then if you canseek an opening (to go down) into the earth or a ladder (toascend up) to heaven so that you should bring them a sign and ifAllah had pleased He would certainly have gathered them all onguidance, therefore be not of the ignorant.
6/36 Only those accept who listen; and (as to) the dead, Allahwill raise them, then to Him they shall be returned.
6/37 And they say: Why has not a sign been sent down to himfrom his Lord? Say: Surely Allah is able to send down a sign, butmost of them do not know.
6/38 And there is no animal that walks upon the earth nor abird that flies with its two wings but (they are) genera likeyourselves; We have not neglected anything in the Book, then totheir Lord shall they be gathered.
6/39 And they who reject Our communications are deaf anddumb, in utter darkness; whom Allah pleases He causes to errand whom He pleases He puts on the right way.
6/40 Say: Tell me if the chastisement of Allah should overtakeyou or the hour should come upon you, will you call (on others)besides Allah, if you are truthful?
6/41 Nay, Him you call upon, so He clears away that for whichyou pray if He pleases and you forget what you set up (withHim).
6/42 And certainly We sent (messengers) to nations before youthen We seized them with distress and affliction in order thatthey might humble themselves.
6/43 Yet why did they not, when Our punishment came tothem, humble themselves? But their hearts hardened and theShaitan made what they did fair-seeming to them.
6/44 But when they neglected that with which they had beenadmonished, We opened for them the doors of all things, untilwhen they rejoiced in what they were given We seized themsuddenly; then lo! they were in utter despair.
6/45 So the roots of the people who were unjust were cut off;and all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
6/46 Say: Have you considered that if Allah takes away yourhearing and your sight and sets a seal on your hearts, who is thegod besides Allah that can bring it to you? See how We repeatthe communications, yet they turn away.
6/47 Say: Have you considered if the chastisement of Allahshould overtake you suddenly or openly, will any be destroyedbut the unjust people?
6/48 And We send not messengers but as announcers of goodnews and givers of warning, then whoever believes and actsaright, they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve.
6/49 And (as for) those who reject Our communications, chastisementshall afflict them because they transgressed.
6/50 Say: I do not say to you, I have with me the treasures ofAllah, nor do I know the unseen, nor do I say to you that I aman angel; I do not follow aught save that which is revealed to me.Say: Are the blind and the seeing one alike? Do you not then reflect?
6/51 And warn with it those who fear that they shall be gatheredto their Lord-- there is no guardian for them, nor any intercessorbesides Him-- that they may guard (against evil).
6/52 And do not drive away those who call upon their Lord inthe morning and the evening, they desire only His favor; neitherare you answerable for any reckoning of theirs, nor are theyanswerable for any reckoning of yours, so that you should drivethem away and thus be of the unjust.
6/53 And thus do We try some of them by others so that theysay: Are these they upon whom Allah has conferred benefit fromamong us? Does not Allah best know the grateful?
6/54 And when those who believe in Our communicationscome to you, say: Peace be on you, your Lord has ordainedmercy on Himself, (so) that if any one of you does evil inignorance, then turns after that and acts aright, then He isForgiving, Merciful.
6/55 And thus do We make distinct the communications andso that the way of the guilty may become clear.
6/56 Say: I am forbidden to serve those whom you call uponbesides Allah. Say: I do not follow your low desires. forthen indeed I should have gone astray and I should not be of thosewho go aright.
6/57 Say: Surely I have manifest proof from my Lord and youcall it a lie; I have not with me that which you would hasten; thet judgment is only Allah's; He relates the truth and He is the bestof deciders.
6/58 Say: If that which you desire to hasten were with me, thematter would have certainly been decided between you and me;and Allah best knows the unjust.
6/59 And with Him are the keys of the unseen treasures-- noneknows them but He; and He knows what is in the land and thesea, and there falls not a leaf but He knows it, nor a grain in thedarkness of the earth, nor anything green nor dry but (it is all) ina clear book.
6/60 And He it is Who takes your souls at night (in sleep), andHe knows what you acquire in the day, then He raises you uptherein that an appointed term may be fulfilled; then to Him isyour return, then He will inform you of what you were doing.
6/61 And He is the Supreme, above His servants, and He sendskeepers over you; until when death comes to one of you, Ourmessengers cause him to die, and they are not remiss.
6/62 Then are they sent back to Allah, their Master, the Trueone; now surely His is the judgment and He is swiftest in takingaccount.
6/63 Say: Who is it that delivers you from the dangers of theland and the sea (when) you call upon Him (openly) humiliatingyourselves, and in secret: If He delivers us from this, we shouldcertainly be of the grateful ones.
6/64 Say: Allah delivers you from them and from every distress,but again you set up others (with Him).
6/65 Say: He has the power that He should send on you achastisement from above you or from beneath your feet, or thatHe should throw you into confusion, (making you) of differentparties; and make some of you taste the fighting of others. Seehow We repeat the communications that they mayunderstand.
6/66 And your people call it a lie and it is the very truth. Say:I am not placed in charge of you.
6/67 For every prophecy is a term, and you will come to know(it).
6/68 And when you see those who enter into false discoursesabout Our communications, withdraw from them until theyenter into some other discourse, and if the Shaitan causes you toforget, then do not sit after recollection with the unjustpeople.
6/69 And nought of the reckoning of their (deeds) shall beagainst those who guard (against evil), but (theirs) is only toremind, haply they may guard.
6/70 And leave those who have taken their religion for a playand an idle sport, and whom this world's life has deceived, andremind (them) thereby lest a soul should be given up to destructionfor what it has earned; it shall not have besides Allah anyguardian nor an intercessor, and if it should seek to give everycompensation, it shall not be accepted from it; these are theywho shall be given up to destruction for what they earned; theyshall have a drink of boiling water and a painful chastisementbecause they disbelieved.
6/71 Say: Shall we call on that besides Allah, which does notbenefit us nor harm us, and shall we be returned back on ourheels after Allah has guided us, like him whom the Shaitans havemade to fall down perplexed in the earth? He has companionswho call him to the right way, (saying): Come to us. Say: Surelythe guidance of Allah, that is the (true) guidance, and we arecommanded that we should submit to the Lord of the worlds.
6/72 And that you should keep up prayer and be careful of(your duty to) Him; and He it is to Whom you shall be gathered.
6/73 And He it is Who has created the heavens and the earthwith truth, and on the day He says: Be, it is. His word is thetruth, and His is the kingdom on the day when the trumpet shallbe blown; the Knower of the unseen and the seen; and He is theWise, the Aware.
6/74 And when Ibrahim said to his sire, Azar: Do you takeidols for gods? Surely I see you and your people in manifesterror.
6/75 And thus did We show Ibrahim the kingdom of the heavensand the earth and that he might be of those who are sure.
6/76 So when the night over-shadowed him, he saw a star; saidhe: Is this my Lord? So when it set, he said: I do not love thesetting ones.
6/77 Then when he saw the moon rising, he said: Is this myLord? So when it set, he said: If my Lord had not guided me Ishould certainly be of the erring people.
6/78 Then when he saw the sun rising, he said: Is this my Lord?Is this the greatest? So when it set, he said: O my people! surely Iam clear of what you set up (with Allah).
6/79 Surely I have turned myself, being upright, wholly to HimWho originated the heavens and the earth, and I am not of thepolytheists.
6/80 And his people disputed with him. He said: Do youdispute with me respecting Allah? And He has guided me indeed;and I do not fear in any way those that you set up with Him,unless my Lord pleases; my Lord comprehends all things in Hisknowledge; will you not then mind?
6/81 And how should I fear what you have set up (with Him),while you do not fear that you have set up with Allah that forwhich He has not sent down to you any authority; which then ofthe two parties is surer of security, if you know?
6/82 Those who believe and do not mix up their faith withiniquity, those are they who shall have the security and they arethose who go aright.
6/83 And this was Our argument which we gave to Ibrahimagainst his people; We exalt in dignity whom We please; surelyyour Lord is Wise, Knowing.
6/84 And We gave to him Ishaq and Yaqoub; each did Weguide, and Nuh did We guide before, and of his descendants,Dawood and Sulaiman and Ayub and Yusuf and Haroun; andthus do We reward those who do good (to others).
6/85 And Zakariya and Yahya and Isa and Ilyas; every one wasof the good;
6/86 And Ismail and Al-Yasha and Yunus and Lut; and everyone We made to excel (in) the worlds:
6/87 And from among their fathers and their descendants andtheir brethren, and We chose them and guided them into theright way.
6/88 This is Allah's guidance, He guides thereby whom Hepleases of His servants; and if they had set up others (with Him),certainly what they did would have become ineffectual for them.
6/89 These are they to whom We gave the book and the wisdomand the prophecy; therefore if these disbelieve in it We havealready entrusted with it a people who are not disbelievers init.
6/90 These are they whom Allah guided, therefore follow theirguidance. Say: I do not ask you for any reward for it; it isnothing but a reminder to the nations.
6/91 And they do not assign to Allah the attributes due to Himwhen they say: Allah has not revealed anything to a mortal. Say:Who revealed the Book which Musa brought, a light and aguidance to men, which you make into scattered writings whichyou show while you conceal much? And you were taught whatyou did not know, (neither) you nor your fathers. Say: Allahthen leave them sporting in their vain discourses.
6/92 And this is a Book We have revealed, blessed, verifyingthat which is before it, and that you may warn the metropolisand those around her; and those who believe in the hereafterbelieve in it, and they attend to their prayers constantly.
6/93 And who is more unjust than he who forges a lie againstAllah, or says: It has been revealed to me; while nothing hasbeen revealed to him, and he who says: I can reveal the like ofwhat Allah has revealed? and if you had seen when the unjustshall be in the agonies of death and the angels shall spread forththeir hands: Give up your souls; today shall you be recompensedwith an ignominious chastisement because you spoke againstAllah other than the truth and (because) you showed prideagainst His communications.
6/94 And certainly you have come to Us alone as We createdyou at first, and you have left behind your backs the thingswhich We gave you, and We do not see with you your intercessorsabout whom you asserted that they were (Allah's) associatesin respect to you; certainly the ties between you are nowcut off and what you asserted is gone from you.
6/95 Surely Allah causes the grain and the stone to germinate;He brings forth the living from the dead and He is the bringerforth of the dead from the living; that is Allah! how are you thenturned away.
6/96 He causes the dawn to break; and He has made the nightfor rest, and the sun and the moon for reckoning; this is anarrangement of the Mighty, the Knowing.
6/97 And He it is Who has made the stars for you that youmight follow the right way thereby in the darkness of the landand the sea; truly We have made plain the communications for apeople who know.
6/98 And He it is Who has brought you into being from asingle soul, then there is (for you) a resting-place and a depository;indeed We have made plain the communications for apeople who understand.
6/99 And He it is Who sends down water from the cloud, thenWe bring forth with it buds of all (plants), then We bring forthfrom it green (foliage) from which We produce grain piled up (inthe ear); and of the palm-tree, of the sheaths of it, come forthclusters (of dates) within reach, and gardens of grapes and olivesand pomegranates, alike and unlike; behold the fruit of it when ityields the fruit and the ripening of it; most surely there are signsin this for a people who believe.
6/100 And they make the jinn associates with Allah, while Hecreated them, and they falsely attribute to Him sons and daughterswithout knowledge; glory be to Him, and highly exalted is Heabove what they ascribe (to Him).
6/101 Wonderful Originator of the heavens and the earth! Howcould He have a son when He has no consort, and He (Himself)created everything, and He is the Knower of all things.
6/102 That is Allah, your Lord, there is no god but He; theCreator of all things, therefore serve Him, and He has charge ofall things.
6/103 Vision comprehends Him not, and He comprehends (all)vision; and He is the Knower of subtleties, the Aware.
6/104 Indeed there have come to you clear proofs from yourLord; whoever will therefore see, it is for his own soul andwhoever will be blind, it shall be against himself and I am not akeeper over you.
6/105 And thus do We repeat the communications and thatthey may say: You have read; and that We may make it clear to apeople who know.
6/106 Follow what is revealed to you from your Lord; there isno god but He; and withdraw from the polytheists.
6/107 And if Allah had pleased, they would not have set upothers (with Him) and We have not appointed you a keeper overthem, and you are not placed in charge of them.
6/108 And do not abuse those whom they call upon besidesAllah, lest exceeding the limits they should abuse Allah out ofignorance. Thus have We made fair seeming to every peopletheir deeds; then to their Lord shall be their return, so He willinform them of what they did.
6/109 And they swear by Allah with the strongest of theiroaths, that if a sign came to them they would most certainlybelieve in it. Say: Signs are only with Allah; and what shouldmake you know that when it comes they will not believe?
6/110 And We will turn their hearts and their sights, even asthey did not believe in it the first time, and We will leave them intheir inordinacy, blindly wandering on.
6/111 And even if We had sent down to them the angels andthe dead had spoken to them and We had brought together allthings before them, they would not believe unless Allah pleases,but most of them are ignorant.
6/112 And thus did We make for every prophet an enemy, theShaitans from among men and jinn, some of them suggesting toothers varnished falsehood to deceive (them), and had your Lordpleased they would not have done it, therefore leave them andthat which they forge.
6/113 And that the hearts of those who do not believe in thehereafter may incline to it and that they may be well pleased withit and that they may earn what they are going to earn (of evil).
6/114 Shall I then seek a judge other than Allah? And He it isWho has revealed to you the Book (which is) made plain; andthose whom We have given the Book know that it is revealed byyour Lord with truth, therefore you should not be of the disputers.
6/115 And the word of your Lord has been accomplished trulyand justly; there is none who can change His words, and He isthe Hearing, the Knowing.
6/116 And if you obey most of those in the earth, they will leadyou astray from Allah's way; they follow but conjecture and theyonly lie.
6/117 Surely your Lord-- He best knows who goes astray fromHis way, and He best knows those who follow the right course.
6/118 Therefore eat of that on which Allah's name has beenmentioned if you are believers in His communications.
6/119 And what reason have you that you should not eat ofthat on which Allah's name has been mentioned, and He hasalready made plain to you what He has forbidden to you--excepting what you are compelled to; and most surely manywould lead (people) astray by their low desires out of ignorance;surely your Lord-- He best knows those who exceed the limits.
6/120 And abandon open and secret sin; surely they who earnsin shall be recompensed with what they earned.
6/121 And do not eat of that on which Allah's name has notbeen mentioned, and that is most surely a transgression; andmost surely the Shaitans suggest to their friends that they shouldcontend with you; and if you obey them, you shall most surely bepolytheists.
6/122 Is he who was dead then We raised him to life and madefor him a light by which he walks among the people, like himwhose likeness is that of one in utter darkness whence he cannotcome forth? Thus what they did was made fair seeming to theunbelievers.
6/123 And thus have We made in every town the great ones tobe its guilty ones, that they may plan therein; and they do notplan but against their own souls, and they do not perceive.
6/124 And when a communication comes to them they say: Wewill not believe till we are given the like of what Allah's messengersare given. Allah best knows where He places His message. Thereshall befall those who are guilty humiliation from Allah andsevere chastisement because of what they planned.
6/125 Therefore (for) whomsoever Allah intends that He wouldguide him aright, He expands his breast for Islam, and (for)whomsoever He intends that He should cause him to err, Hemakes his breast strait and narrow as though he were ascendingupwards; thus does Allah lay uncleanness on those who do notbelieve.
6/126 And this is the path of your Lord, (a) right (path); indeedWe have made the communications clear for a people who mind.
6/127 They shall have the abode of peace with their Lord, andHe is their guardian because of what they did.
6/128 And on the day when He shall gather them all together:O assembly of jinn! you took away a great part of mankind.And their friends from among the men shall say: Our Lord!some of us profited by others and we have reached our appointedterm which Thou didst appoint for us. He shall say: The fire isyour abode, to abide in it, except as Allah is pleased; surely yourLord is Wise, Knowing.
6/129 And thus do We make some of the iniquitous to befriendothers on account of what they earned.
6/130 O assembly of jinn and men! did there not come to youmessengers from among you, relating to you My communicationsand warning you of the meeting of this day of yours? They shallsay: We bear witness against ourselves; and this world's lifedeceived them, and they shall bear witness against their ownsouls that they were unbelievers.
6/131 This is because your Lord would not destroy townsunjustly while their people were negligent.
6/132 And all have degrees according to what they do; andyour Lord is not heedless of what they do.
6/133 And your Lord is the Self-sufficient one, the Lord ofmercy; if He pleases, He may take you off, and make whom Hepleases successors after you, even as He raised you up from theseed of another people.
6/134 Surely what you are threatened with must come to passand you cannot escape (it).
6/135 Say: O my people! act according to your ability; I too amacting; so you will soon come to know, for whom (of us) will bethe (good) end of the abode; surely the unjust shall not besuccessful.
6/136 And they set apart a portion for Allah out of what Hehas created of tilth and cattle, and say: This is for Allah-- so theyassert-- and this for our associates; then what is for their associates,it reaches not to Allah, and whatever is (set apart) forAllah, it reaches to their associates; evil is that which theyjudge.
6/137 And thus their associates have made fair seeming to mostof the polytheists the killing of their children, that they maycause them to perish and obscure for them their religion; and ifAllah had pleased, they would not have done it, therefore leavethem and that which they forge.
6/138 And they say: These are cattle and tilth prohibited, noneshall eat them except such as We please-- so they assert-- andcattle whose backs are forbidden, and cattle on which theywould not mention Allah's name-- forging a lie against Him; Heshall requite them for what they forged.
6/139 And they say: What is in the wombs of these cattle isspecially for our males, and forbidden to our wives, and if it bestillborn, then they are all partners in it; He will reward themfor their attributing (falsehood to Allah); surely He is Wise,Knowing.
6/140 They are lost indeed who kill their children foolishlywithout knowledge, and forbid what Allah has given to themforging a lie against Allah; they have indeed gone astray, andthey are not the followers of the right course.
6/141 And He it is Who produces gardens (of vine), trellisedand untrellised, and palms and seed-produce of which the fruitsare of various sorts, and olives and pomegranates, like andunlike; eat of its fruit when it bears fruit, and pay the due of it onthe day of its reaping, and do not act extravagantly; surely Hedoes not love the extravagant.
6/142 And of cattle (He created) beasts of burden and thosewhich are fit for slaughter only; eat of what Allah has given youand do not follow the footsteps of the Shaitan; surely he is youropen enemy.
6/143 Eight in pairs-- two of sheep and two of goats. Say: HasHe forbidden the two males or the two females or that which thewombs of the two females contain? Inform me with knowledge ifyou are truthful.
6/144 And two of camels and two of cows. Say: Has Heforbidden the two males or the two females or that which thewombs of the two females contain? Or were you witnesses whenAllah enjoined you this? Who, then, is more unjust than he whoforges a lie against Allah that he should lead astray men withoutknowledge? Surely Allah does not guide the unjustpeople.
6/145 Say: I do not find in that which has been revealed to meanything forbidden for an eater to eat of except that it be whathas died of itself, or blood poured forth, or flesh of swine-- forthat surely is unclean-- or that which is a transgression, otherthan (the name of) Allah having been invoked on it; but whoeveris driven to necessity, not desiring nor exceeding the limit, thensurely your Lord is Forgiving, Merciful.
6/146 And to those who were Jews We made unlawful everyanimal having claws, and of oxen and sheep We made unlawfulto them the fat of both, except such as was on their backs or theentrails or what was mixed with bones: this was a punishmentWe gave them on account of their rebellion, and We are surelyTruthful.
6/147 But if they give you the lie, then say: Your Lord is theLord of All-encompassing mercy; and His punishment cannot beaverted from the guilty people.
6/148 Those who are polytheists will say: If Allah had pleasedwe would not have associated (aught with Him) nor our fathers,nor would we have forbidden (to ourselves) anything; even sodid those before them reject until they tasted Our punishment.Say: Have you any knowledge with you so you should bring itforth to us? You only follow a conjecture and you only tell lies.
6/149 Say: Then Allah's is the conclusive argument; so if Heplease, He would certainly guide you all.
6/150 Say: Bring your witnesses who should bear witness thatAllah has forbidden this, then if they bear witness, do not bearwitness with them; and follow not the low desires of those whoreject Our communications and of those who do not believe inthe hereafter, and they make (others) equal to theirLord.
6/151 Say: Come I will recite what your Lord has forbidden toyou-- (remember) that you do not associate anything with Himand show kindness to your parents, and do not slay your childrenfor (fear of) poverty-- We provide for you and for them--and do not draw nigh to indecencies, those of them which areapparent and those which are concealed, and do not kill the soulwhich Allah has forbidden except for the requirements of justice;this He has enjoined you with that you may understand.
6/152 And do not approach the property of the orphan exceptin the best manner until he attains his maturity, and give fullmeasure and weight with justice-- We do not impose on any soula duty except to the extent of its ability; and when you speak,then be just though it be (against) a relative, and fulfill Allah'scovenant; this He has enjoined you with that you may be mindful;
6/153 And (know) that this is My path, the right one thereforefollow it, and follow not (other) ways, for they will lead youaway from His way; this He has enjoined you with that you mayguard (against evil).
6/154 Again, We gave the Book to Musa to complete (Ourblessings) on him who would do good (to others), and makingplain all things and a guidance and a mercy, so that they shouldbelieve in the meeting of their Lord.
6/155 And this is a Book We have revealed, blessed; thereforefollow it and guard (against evil) that mercy may be shown toyou.
6/156 Lest you say that the Book was only revealed to twoparties before us and We were truly unaware of what they read.
6/157 Or lest you should say: If the Book had been revealedto us, we would certainly have been better guided than they, soindeed there has come to you clear proof from your Lord, andguidance and mercy. Who then is more unjust than he whorejects Allah's communications and turns away from them? Wewill reward those who turn away from Our communicationswith an evil chastisement because they turned away.
6/158 They do not wait aught but that the angels should cometo them, or that your Lord should come, or that some of thesigns of your Lord should come. On the day when some of thesigns of your Lord shall come, its faith shall not profit a soulwhich did not believe before, or earn good through its faith. Say:Wait; we too are waiting.
6/159 Surely they who divided their religion into parts andbecame sects, you have no concern with them; their affair is onlywith Allah, then He will inform them of what they did.
6/160 Whoever brings a good deed, he shall have ten like it,and whoever brings an evil deed, he shall be recompensed onlywith the like of it, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.
6/161 Say: Surely, (as for) me, my Lord has guided me to theright path; (to) a most right religion, the faith of Ibrahim theupright one, and he was not of the polytheists.
6/162 Say. Surely my prayer and my sacrifice and my life andmy death are (all) for Allah, the Lord of the worlds;
6/163 No associate has He; and this am I commanded, and Iam the first of those who submit.
6/164 Say: What! shall I seek a Lord other than Allah? And Heis the Lord of all things; and no soul earns (evil) but againstitself, and no bearer of burden shall bear the burden of another;then to your Lord is your return, so He will inform you of that inwhich you differed.
6/165 And He it is Who has made you successors in the landand raised some of you above others by (various) grades, that Hemight try you by what He has given you; surely your Lord isquick to requite (evil), and He is most surely the Forgiving, theMerciful.
