25/1 Blessed is He Who sent down the Furqan upon His servantthat he may be a warner to the nations;
25/2 He, Whose is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth,and Who did not take to Himself a son, and Who has noassociate in the kingdom, and Who created everything, thenordained for it a measure.
25/3 And they have taken besides Him gods, who do not createanything while they are themselves created, and they controlnot for themselves any harm or profit, and they control notdeath nor life, nor raising (the dead) to life.
25/4 And those who disbelieve say: This is nothing but a liewhich he has forged, and other people have helped him at it;so indeed they have done injustice and (uttered) afalsehood.
25/5 And they say: The stories of the ancients-- he has got themwritten-- so these are read out to him morning and evening.
25/6 Say: He has revealed it Who knows the secret in theheavens and the earth; surely He is ever Forgiving,Merciful.
25/7 And they say: What is the matter with this Messenger thathe eats food and goes about in the markets; why has not anangel been sent down to him, so that he should have been awarner with him?
25/8 Or (why is not) a treasure sent down to him, or he ismade to have a garden from which he should eat? And theunjust say: You do not follow any but a man deprived ofreason.
25/9 See what likenesses do they apply to you, so they havegone astray, therefore they shall not be able to find a way.
25/10 Blessed is He Who, if He please, will give you what isbetter than this, gardens beneath which rivers flow, and Hewill give you palaces.
25/11 But they reject the hour, and We have prepared a burningfire for him who rejects the hour.
25/12 When it shall come into their sight from a distantplace, they shall hear its vehement raging and roaring.
25/13 And when they are cast into a narrow place in it, bound,they shall there call out for destruction.
25/14 Call not this day for one destruction, but call fordestructions many.
25/15 Say: Is this better or the abiding garden which thosewho guard (against evil) are promised? That shall be areward and a resort for them.
25/16 They shall have therein what they desire abiding (init); it is a promise which it is proper to be prayed forfrom your Lord.
25/17 And on the day when He shall gather them, and whateverthey served besides Allah, He shall say: Was it you who ledastray these My servants, or did they themselves go astrayfrom the path?
25/18 They shall say: Glory be to Thee; it was not beseemingfor us that we should take any guardians besides Thee, butThou didst make them and their fathers to enjoy until theyforsook the reminder, and they were a people in perdition,
25/19 So they shall indeed give you the lie in what you say,then you shall not be able to ward off or help, and whoeveramong you is unjust, We will make him taste a greatchastisement.
25/20 And We have not sent before you any messengers but theymost surely ate food and went about in the markets; and Wehave made some of you a trial for others; will you bearpatiently? And your Lord is ever Seeing.
25/21 And those who do not hope for Our meeting, say: Why havenot angels been sent down upon us, or (why) do we not seeour Lord? Now certainly they are too proud of themselves andhave revolted in great revolt.
25/22 On the day when they shall see the angels, there shallbe no joy on that day for the guilty, and they shall say: Itis a forbidden thing totally prohibited.
25/23 And We will proceed to what they have done of deeds, soWe shall render them as scattered floating dust.
25/24 The dwellers of the garden shall on that day be in abetter abiding-place and a better resting-place.
25/25 And on the day when the heaven shall burst asunder withthe clouds, and the angels shall be sent down descending (inranks).
25/26 The kingdom on that day shall rightly belong to theBeneficent Allah, and a hard day shall it be for theunbelievers.
25/27 And the day when the unjust one shall bite his handssaying: O! would that I had taken a way with the Messenger
25/28 O woe is me! would that I had not taken such a one for afriend !
25/29 Certainly he led me astray from the reminder after ithad come to me; and the Shaitan fails to aid man.
25/30 And the Messenger cried out: O my Lord! surely my peoplehave treated this Quran as a forsaken thing.
25/31 And thus have We made for every prophet an enemy fromamong the sinners and sufficient is your Lord as a Guide anda Helper.
25/32 And those who disbelieve say: Why has not the Quran beenrevealed to him all at once? Thus, that We may strengthenyour heart by it and We have arranged it well in arranging.
25/33 And they shall not bring to you any argument, but Wehave brought to you (one) with truth and best insignificance.
25/34 (As for) those who shall be gathered upon their faces tohell, they are in a worse plight and straying farther awayfrom the path.
25/35 And certainly We gave Musa the Book and We appointedwith him his brother Haroun an aider.
25/36 Then We said: Go you both to the people who rejected Ourcommunications; so We destroyed them with utter destruction.
25/37 And the people of Nuh, when they rejected the messengers,We drowned them, and made them a sign for men, and We haveprepared a painful punishment for the unjust;
25/38 And Ad and Samood and the dwellers of the Rass and manygenerations between them.
25/39 And to every one We gave examples and every one did Wedestroy with utter destruction.
25/40 And certainly they have (often) passed by the town onwhich was rained an evil rain; did they not then see it?Nay! they did not hope to be raised again.
25/41 And when they see you, they do not take you for aughtbut a mockery: Is this he whom Allah has raised to be anmessenger?
25/42 He had well-nigh led us astray from our gods had we notadhered to them patiently! And they will know, when they seethe punishment, who is straying farther off from the path.
25/43 Have you seen him who takes his low desires for his god?Will you then be a protector over him?
25/44 Or do you think that most of them do hear or understand?They are nothing but as cattle; nay, they are strayingfarther off from the path.
25/45 Have you not considered (the work of) your Lord, how Heextends the shade? And if He had pleased He would certainlyhave made it stationary; then We have made the sun anindication of it
25/46 Then We take it to Ourselves, taking little by little.
25/47 And He it is Who made the night a covering for you, andthe sleep a rest, and He made the day to rise up again.
25/48 And He it is Who sends the winds as good news before Hismercy; and We send down pure water from the cloud,
25/49 That We may give life thereby to a dead land and give itfor drink, out of what We have created, to cattle and manypeople.
25/50 And certainly We have repeated this to them that theymay be mindful, but the greater number of men do not consentto aught except denying.
25/51 And if We had pleased We would certainly have raised awarner in every town.
25/52 So do not follow the unbelievers, and strive againstthem a mighty striving with it.
25/53 And He it is Who has made two seas to flow freely, theone sweet that subdues thirst by its sweetness, and theother salt that burns by its saltness; and between the twoHe has made a barrier and inviolable obstruction.
25/54 And He it is Who has created man from the water, then Hehas made for him blood relationship and marriagerelationship, and your Lord is powerful.
25/55 And they serve besides Allah that which neither profitsthem nor causes them harm; and the unbeliever is a partisanagainst his Lord.
25/56 And We have not sent you but as a giver of good news andas a warner.
25/57 Say: I do not ask you aught in return except that he whowill, may take the way to his Lord.
25/58 And rely on the Ever-living Who dies not, and celebrateHis praise; and Sufficient is He as being aware of thefaults of His servants,
25/59 Who created the heavens and the earth and what isbetween them in six periods, and He is firmly established onthe throne of authority; the Beneficent Allah, so askrespecting it one aware.
25/60 And when it is said to them: Prostrate to theBeneficent Allah, they say: And what is the Allah ofbeneficence? Shall we prostrate to what you bid us? Andit adds to their aversion.
25/61 Blessed is He Who made the constellations in the heavensand made therein a lamp and a shining moon.
25/62 And He it is Who made the night and the day to followeach other for him who desires to be mindful or desires tobe thankful.
25/63 And the servants of the Beneficent Allah are they who walkon the earth in humbleness, and when the ignorant addressthem, they say: Peace.
25/64 And they who pass the night prostrating themselvesbefore their Lord and standing.
25/65 And they who say: O our Lord! turn away from us thepunishment of hell, surely the punishment thereof is alasting
25/66 Surely it is an evil abode and (evil) place to stay.
25/67 And they who when they spend, are neither extravagantnor parsimonious, and (keep) between these the just mean.
25/68 And they who do not call upon another god with Allah anddo not slay the soul, which Allah has forbidden except inthe requirements of justice, and (who) do not commitfornication and he who does this shall find a requital ofsin;
25/69 The punishment shall be doubled to him on the day ofresurrection, and he shall abide therein in abasement;
25/70 Except him who repents and believes and does a gooddeed; so these are they of whom Allah changes the evil deedsto good ones; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
25/71 And whoever repents and does good, he surely turns toAllah a (goodly) turning.
25/72 And they who do not bear witness to what is false, andwhen they pass by what is vain, they pass by nobly.
25/73 And they who, when reminded of the communications oftheir Lord, do not fall down thereat deaf and blind.
25/74 And they who say: O our Lord! grant us in our wives andour offspring the joy of our eyes, and make us guides tothose who guard (against evil).
25/75 These shall be rewarded with high places because theywere patient, and shall be met therein with greetings andsalutations.
25/76 Abiding therein; goodly the abode and the resting-place.
25/77 Say: My Lord would not care for you were it not for yourprayer; but you have indeed rejected (the truth), so thatwhich shall cleave shall come.
