41/1 Ha Mim!
41/2 A revelation from the Beneficent, the Merciful Allah:
41/3 A Book of which the verses are made plain, an ArabicQuran for a people who know:
41/4 A herald of good news and a warner, but most of them turnaside so they hear not.
41/5 And they say: Our hearts are under coverings from that towhich you call us, and there is a heaviness in our ears, anda veil hangs between us and you, so work, we too areworking.
41/6 Say: I am only a mortal like you; it is revealed to methat your Allah is one Allah, therefore follow the right way toHim and ask His forgiveness; and woe to the polytheists;
41/7 (To) those who do not give poor-rate and they areunbelievers in the hereafter.
41/8 (As for) those who believe and do good, they shall surelyhave a reward never to be cut off.
41/9 Say: What! do you indeed disbelieve in Him Who createdthe earth in two periods, and do you set up equals with Him?That is the Lord of the Worlds.
41/10 And He made in it mountains above its surface, and Heblessed therein and made therein its foods, in four periods:alike for the seekers.
41/11 Then He directed Himself to the heaven and it is avapor, so He said to it and to the earth: Come both,willingly or unwillingly. They both said: We come willingly.
41/12 So He ordained them seven heavens in two periods, andrevealed in every heaven its affair; and We adorned thelower heaven with brilliant stars and (made it) to guard;that is the decree of the Mighty, the Knowing.
41/13 But if they turn aside, then say: I have warned you of ascourge like the scourge of Ad and Samood.
41/14 When their messengers came to them from before them andfrom behind them, saying, Serve nothing but Allah, theysaid: If our Lord had pleased He would certainly have sentdown angels, so we are surely unbelievers in that with whichyou are sent.
41/15 Then as to Ad, they were unjustly proud in the land, andthey said: Who is mightier in strength than we? Did they notsee that Allah Who created them was mightier than they instrength, and they denied Our communications?
41/16 So We sent on them a furious wind in unlucky days, thatWe may make them taste the chastisement of abasement in thisworld's life; and certainly the chastisement of thehereafter is much more abasing, and they shall not behelped.
41/17 And as to Samood, We showed them the right way, but theychose error above guidance, so there overtook them thescourge of an abasing chastisement for what they earned.
41/18 And We delivered those who believed and guarded (againstevil).
41/19 And on the day that the enemies of Allah shall bebrought together to the fire, then they shall be formed intogroups.
41/20 Until when they come to it, their ears and their eyesand their skins shall bear witness against them as to whatthey did.
41/21 And they shall say to their skins: Why have you bornewitness against us? They shall say: Allah Who makeseverything speak has made us speak, and He created you atfirst, and to Him you shall be brought back.
41/22 And you did not veil yourselves lest your ears and youreyes and your skins should bear witness against you, but youthought that Allah did not know most of what you did.
41/23 And that was your (evil) thought which you entertainedabout your Lord that has tumbled you down into perdition, soare you become of the lost ones.
41/24 Then if they will endure, still the fire is their abode,and if they ask for goodwill, then are they not of those whoshall be granted goodwill.
41/25 And We have appointed for them comrades so they havemade fair-seeming to them what is before them and what isbehind them, and the word proved true against them-- among thenations of the jinn and the men that have passed away beforethem-- that they shall surely be losers.
41/26 And those who disbelieve say: Do not listen to thisQuran and make noise therein, perhaps you may overcome.
41/27 Therefore We will most certainly make those whodisbelieve taste a severe punishment, and We will mostcertainly reward them for the evil deeds they used to do.
41/28 That is the reward of the enemies of Allah-- the fire; forthem therein shall be the house of long abiding; a rewardfor their denying Our communications.
41/29 And those who disbelieve will say: Our Lord! show usthose who led us astray from among the jinn and the men thatwe may trample them under our feet so that they may be ofthe lowest.
41/30 (As for) those who say: Our Lord is Allah, then continuein the right way, the angels descend upon them, saying: Fearnot, nor be grieved, and receive good news of the gardenwhich you were promised.
41/31 We are your guardians in this world's life and in thehereafter, and you shall have therein what your souls desireand you shall have therein what you ask for:
41/32 A provision from the Forgiving, the Merciful.
41/33 And who speaks better than he who calls to Allah whilehe himself does good, and says: I am surely of those whosubmit?
41/34 And not alike are the good and the evil. Repel (evil)with what is best, when lo! he between whom and you wasenmity would be as if he were a warm friend.
41/35 And none are made to receive it but those who arepatient, and none are made to receive it but those who havea mighty good fortune.
41/36 And if an interference of the Shaitan should cause youmischief, seek refuge in Allah; surely He is the Hearing,the Knowing.
41/37 And among His signs are the night and the day and thesun and the moon; do not prostrate to the sun nor tothe moon; and prostrate to Allah Who created them, ifHim it is that you serve.
41/38 But if they are proud, yet those with your Lord glorifyHim during the night and the day, and they are not tired.
41/39 And among His signs is this, that you see the earthstill, but when We send down on it the water, it stirs andswells: most surely He Who gives it life is the Giver oflife to the dead; surely He has power over all things.
41/40 Surely they who deviate from the right way concerningOur communications are not hidden from Us. What! is he thenwho is cast into the fire better, or he who comes safe onthe day of resurrection? Do what you like, surely He seeswhat you do.
41/41 Surely those who disbelieve in the reminder when itcomes to them, and most surely it is a Mighty Book:
41/42 Falsehood shall not come to it from before it nor frombehind it; a revelation from the Wise, the Praised One.
41/43 Naught is said to you but what was said indeed to themessengers before you; surely your Lord is the Lord offorgiveness and the Lord of painful retribution.
41/44 And if We had made it a Quran in a foreign tongue, theywould certainly have said: Why have not its communicationsbeen made clear? What! a foreign (tongue) and an Arabian!Say: It is to those who believe a guidance and a healing;and (as for) those who do not believe, there is a heavinessin their ears and it is obscure to them; these shall becalled to from a far-off place.
41/45 And certainly We gave the Book to Musa, but it has beendiffered about, and had not a word already gone forth fromyour Lord, judgment would certainly have been given betweenthem; and most surely they are in a disquieting doubt aboutit.
41/46 Whoever does good, it is for his own soul, and whoeverdoes evil, it is against it; and your Lord is not in theleast unjust to the servants.
41/47 To Him is referred the knowledge of the hour, and therecome not forth any of the fruits from their coverings, nordoes a female bear, nor does she give birth, but with Hisknowledge; and on the day when He shall call out to them,Where are (those whom you called) My associates? They shallsay: We declare to Thee, none of us is a witness.
41/48 And away from them shall go what they called uponbefore, and they shall know for certain that there is noescape for them.
41/49 Man is never tired of praying for good, and if eviltouch him, then he is despairing, hopeless.
41/50 And if We make him taste mercy from Us after distressthat has touched him, he would most certainly say: This isof me, and I do not think the hour will come to pass, and ifI am sent back to my Lord, I shall have with Him sure good;but We will most certainly inform those who disbelieved ofwhat they did, and We will most certainly make them taste ofhard chastisement.
41/51 And when We show favor to man, he turns aside andwithdraws himself; and when evil touches him, he makeslengthy supplications.
41/52 Say: Tell me if it is from Allah; then you disbelieve init, who is in greater error than he who is in a prolongedopposition?
41/53 We will soon show them Our signs in the Universe and intheir own souls, until it will become quite clear to themthat it is the truth. Is it not sufficient as regards yourLord that He is a witness over all things?
41/54 Now surely they are in doubt as to the meeting of theirLord; now surely He encompasses all things.
