11/1 Alif Lam Ra (This is) a Book, whose verses are madedecisive, then are they made plain, from the Wise,All-aware:
11/2 That you shall not serve (any) but Allah; surely I am awarner for you from Him and a giver of good news,
11/3 And you that ask forgiveness of your Lord, then turn toHim; He will provide you with a goodly provision to anappointed term and bestow His grace on every one endowedwith grace, and if you turn back, then surely I fear for youthe chastisement of a great day.
11/4 To Allah is your return, and He has power over allthings.
11/5 Now surely they fold up their breasts that they mayconceal (their enmity) from Him; now surely, when they usetheir garments as a covering, He knows what they conceal andwhat they make public; surely He knows what is in thebreasts.
11/6 And there is no animal in the earth but on Allah is thesustenance of it, and He knows its resting place and itsdepository all (things) are in a manifest book.
11/7 And He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in sixperiods-- and His dominion (extends) on the water-- that Hemight manifest to you, which of you is best in action, andif you say, surely you shall be raised up after death, thosewho disbelieve would certainly say: This is nothing butclear magic.
11/8 And if We hold back from them the punishment until astated period of time, they will certainly say: Whatprevents it? Now surely on the day when it will come tothem, it shall not be averted from them and that which theyscoffed at shall beset them.
11/9 And if We make man taste mercy from Us, then take it offfrom him, most surely he is despairing, ungrateful.
11/10 And if We make him taste a favor after distress hasafflicted him, he will certainly say: The evils are goneaway from me. Most surely he is exulting, boasting;
11/11 Except those who are patient and do good, they shallhave forgiveness and a great reward.
11/12 Then, it may be that you will give up part of what isrevealed to you and your breast will become straitened by itbecause they say: Why has not a treasure been sent down uponhim or an angel come with him? You are only a warner; andAllah is custodian over all things.
11/13 Or, do they say: He has forged it. Say: Then bring tenforged chapters like it and call upon whom you can besidesAllah, if you are truthful.
11/14 But if they do not answer you, then know that it isrevealed by Allah's knowledge and that there is no god butHe; will you then submit?
11/15 Whoever desires this world's life and its finery, Wewill pay them in full their deeds therein, and they shallnot be made to. suffer loss in respect of them.
11/16 These are they for whom there is nothing but fire in thehereafter, and what they wrought in it shall go for nothing,and vain is what they do.
11/17 Is he then who has with him clear proof from his Lord,and a witness from Him recites it and before it (is) theBook of Musa, a guide and a mercy? These believe in it; andwhoever of the (different) parties disbelieves in it, surelyit is the truth from your Lord, but most men do not believe.
11/18 And who is more unjust than he who forges a lie againstAllah? These shall be brought before their Lord, and thewitnesses shall say: These are they who lied against theirLord. Now surely the curse of Allah is on the unjust.
11/19 Who turn away from the path of Allah and desire to makeit crooked; and they are disbelievers in the hereafter.
11/20 These shall not escape in the earth, nor shall they haveany guardians besides Allah; the punishment shall be doubledfor them, they could not bear to hear and they did not see.
11/21 These are they who have lost their souls, and what theyforged is gone from them.
11/22 Truly in the hereafter they are the greatest losers.
11/23 Surely (as to) those who believe and do good and humblethemselves to their Lord, these are the dwellers of thegarden, in it they will abide.
11/24 The likeness of the two parties is as the blind and thedeaf and the seeing and the hearing: are they equal incondition? Will you not then mind?
11/25 And certainly We sent Nuh to his people: Surely I am aplain warner for you:
11/26 That you shall not serve any but Allah, surely I fearfor you the punishment of a painful day.
11/27 But the chiefs of those who disbelieved from among hispeople said: We do not consider you but a mortal likeourselves, and we do not see any have followed you but thosewho are the meanest of us at first thought and we do not seein you any excellence over us; nay, we deem you liars.
11/28 He said: O my people! tell me if I have with me clearproof from my Lord, and He has granted me mercy from Himselfand it has been made obscure to you; shall we constrain youto (accept) it while you are averse from it?
11/29 And, O my people! I ask you not for wealth in return forit; my reward is only with Allah and I am not going to driveaway those who believe; surely they shall meet their Lord,but I consider you a people who are ignorant:
11/30 And, O my people! who will help me against Allah if Idrive them away? Will you not then mind?
11/31 And I do not say to you that I have the treasures ofAllah and I do not know the unseen, nor do I say that I aman angel, nor do I say about those whom your eyes hold inmean estimation (that) Allah will never grant them (any)good-- Allah knows best what is in their souls-- for then mostsurely I should be of the unjust.
11/32 They said: O Nuh! indeed you have disputed with us andlengthened dispute with us, therefore bring to us what youthreaten us with, if you are of the truthful ones.
11/33 He said: Allah only will bring it to you if He please,and you will not escape:
11/34 And if I intend to give you good advice, my advice willnot profit you if Allah intended that He should leave you togo astray; He is your Lord, and to Him shall you bereturned.
11/35 Or do they say: He has forged it? Say: If I have forgedit, on me is my guilt, and I am clear of that of which youare guilty.
11/36 And it was revealed to Nuh: That none of your peoplewill believe except those who have already believed,therefore do not grieve at what they do:
11/37 And make the ark before Our eyes and (according to) Ourrevelation, and do not speak to Me in respect of those whoare unjust; surely they shall be drowned.
11/38 And he began to make the ark; and whenever the chiefsfrom among his people passed by him they laughed at him. Hesaid: If you laugh at us, surely we too laugh at you as youlaugh (at us).
11/39 So shall you know who it is on whom will come achastisement which will disgrace him, and on whom willlasting chastisement come down.
11/40 Until when Our command came and water came forth fromthe valley, We said: Carry in it two of all things, a pair,and your own family-- except those against whom the word hasalready gone forth, and those who believe. And therebelieved not with him but a few.
11/41 And he said: Embark in it, in the name of Allah be itssailing and its anchoring; most surely my Lord is Forgiving,Merciful.
11/42 And it moved on with them amid waves like mountains; andNuh called out to his son, and he was aloof: O my son!embark with us and be not with the unbelievers.
11/43 He said: I will betake myself for refuge to a mountainthat shall protect me from the water. Nuh said: There is noprotector today from Allah's punishment but He Who hasmercy; and a wave intervened between them, so he was of thedrowned.
11/44 And it was said: O earth, swallow down your water, and Ocloud, clear away; and the water was made to abate and theaffair was decided, and the ark rested on the Judi, and itwas said: Away with the unjust people.
11/45 And Nuh cried out to his Lord and said: My Lord! surelymy son is of my family, and Thy promise is surely true, andThou art the most just of the judges.
11/46 He said: O Nuh! surely he is not of your family; surelyhe is (the doer of) other than good deeds, therefore ask notof Me that of which you have no knowledge; surely I admonishyou lest you may be of the ignorant
11/47 He said: My Lord! I seek refuge in Thee from asking Theethat of which I have no knowledge; and if Thou shouldst notforgive me and have mercy on me, I should be of the losers.
11/48 It was said: O Nuh! descend with peace from Us andblessings on you and on the people from among those who arewith you, and there shall be nations whom We will affordprovisions, then a painful punishment from Us shall afflictthem.
11/49 These are announcements relating to the unseen which Wereveal to you, you did not know them-- (neither) you nor yourpeople-- before this; therefore be patient; surely the end isfor those who guard (against evil).
11/50 And to Ad (We sent) their brother Hud. He said: O mypeople! serve Allah, you have no god other than He; you arenothing but forgers (of lies).
11/51 O my people! I do not ask of you any reward for it; myreward is only with Him Who created me; do you not thenunderstand?
11/52 And, O my people! ask forgiveness of your Lord, thenturn to Him; He will send on you clouds pouring downabundance of rain and add strength to your strength, and donot turn back guilty.
11/53 They said: O Hud! you have not brought to us any clearargument and we are not going to desert our gods for yourword, and we are not believers in you:
11/54 We cannot say aught but that some of our gods havesmitten you with evil. He said: Surely I call Allah towitness, and do you bear witness too, that I am clear ofwhat you associate (with Allah).
11/55 Besides Him, therefore scheme against me all together;then give me no respite:
11/56 Surely I rely on Allah, my Lord and your Lord; there isno living creature but He holds it by its forelock; surelymy Lord is on the right path.
11/57 But if you turn back, then indeed I have delivered toyou the message with which I have been sent to you, and myLord will bring another people in your place, and you cannotdo Him any harm; surely my Lord is the Preserver of allthings.
11/58 And when Our decree came to pass, We delivered Hud andthose who believed with him with mercy from Us, and Wedelivered them from a hard chastisement.
11/59 And this was Ad; they denied the communications of theirLord, and disobeyed His messengers and followed the bidding ofevery insolent opposer (of truth).
11/60 And they were overtaken by curse in this world and onthe resurrection day; now surely Ad disbelieved in theirLord; now surely, away with Ad, the people of Hud.
11/61 And to Samood (We sent) their brother Salih. He said: Omy people! serve Allah, you have no god other than He; Hebrought you into being from the earth, and made you dwell init, therefore ask forgiveness of Him, then turn to Him;surely my Lord is Nigh, Answering.
11/62 They said: O Salih! surely you were one amongst us inwhom great expectations were placed before this; do you(now) forbid us from worshipping what our fathersworshipped? And as to that which you call us to, most surelywe are in disquieting doubt.
11/63 He said: O my people! tell me if I have clear proof frommy Lord and He has granted to me mercy from Himself-- who willthen help me against Allah if I disobey Him? Therefore youdo not add to me other than loss:
11/64 And, O my people! this will be (as) Allah's she-camelfor you, a sign; therefore leave her to pasture on Allah'searth and do not touch her with evil, for then a nearchastisement will overtake you.
11/65 But they slew her, so he said: Enjoy yourselves in yourabode for three days, that is a promise not to be belied.
11/66 So when Our decree came to pass, We delivered Salih andthose who believed with him by mercy from Us, and (We savedthem) from the disgrace of that day; surely your Lord is theStrong, the Mighty.
11/67 And the rumbling overtook those who were unjust, so theybecame motionless bodies in their abodes,
11/68 As though they had never dwelt in them; now surely didSamood disbelieve in their Lord; now surely, away withSamood.
11/69 And certainly Our messengers came to Ibrahim with goodnews. They said: Peace. Peace, said he, and he made no delayin bringing a roasted calf.
11/70 But when he saw that their hands were not extendedtowards it, he deemed them strange and conceived fear ofthem. . They said: Fear not, surely we are sent to Lut'speople.
11/71 And his wife was standing (by), so she laughed, then Wegave her the good news of Ishaq and after Ishaq of (a son'sson) Yaqoub.
11/72 She said: O wonder! shall I bear a son when I am anextremely old woman and this my husband an extremely oldman? Most surely this is a wonderful thing.
11/73 They said: Do you wonder at Allah's bidding? The mercyof Allah and His blessings are on you, O people of thehouse, surely He is Praised, Glorious.
11/74 So when fear had gone away from Ibrahim and good newscame to him, he began to plead with Us for Lut's people.
11/75 Most surely Ibrahim was forbearing, tender-hearted,oft-returning (to Allah):
11/76 O Ibrahim! leave off this, surely the decree of yourLord has come to pass, and surely there must come to them achastisement that cannot be averted.
11/77 And when Our messengers came to Lut, he was grieved forthem, and he lacked strength to protect them, and said: Thisis a hard day.
11/78 And his people came to him, (as if) rushed on towardshim, and already they did evil deeds. He said: O my people!these are my daughters-- they are purer for you, so guardagainst (the punishment of) Allah and do not disgrace mewith regard to my guests; is there not among you oneright-minded man?
11/79 They said: Certainly you know that we have no claim onyour daughters, and most surely you know what we desire.
11/80 He said: Ah! that I had power to suppress you, rather Ishall have recourse to a strong support.
11/81 They said: O Lut! we are the messengers of your Lord;they shall by no means reach you; so remove your followersin a part of the night-- and let none of you turn back-- exceptyour wife, for surely whatsoever befalls them shall befallher; surely their appointed time is the morning; is not themorning nigh?
11/82 So when Our decree came to pass, We turned them upsidedown and rained down upon them stones, of what had beendecreed, one after another.
11/83 Marked (for punishment) with your Lord and it is not faroff from the unjust.
11/84 And to Madyan (We sent) their brother Shu'aib. He said:O my people! serve Allah, you have no god other than He, anddo not give short measure and weight: surely I see you inprosperity and surely I fear for you the punishment of anall-encompassing day.
11/85 And, O my people! give full measure and weight fairly,and defraud not men their things, and do not act corruptlyin the land, making mischief:
11/86 What remains with Allah is better for you if you arebelievers, and I am not a keeper over you.
11/87 They said: O Shu'aib! does your prayer enjoin you thatwe should forsake what our fathers worshipped or that weshould not do what we please with regard to our property?Forsooth you are the forbearing, the right-directing one.
11/88 He said: O my people! have you considered if I have aclear proof from my Lord and He has given me a goodlysustenance from Himself, and I do not desire that inopposition to you I should betake myself to that which Iforbid you: I desire nothing but reform so far as I am able,and with none but Allah is the direction of my affair to aright issue; on Him do I rely and to Him do I turn:
11/89 And, O my people! let not opposition to me make youguilty so that there may befall you the like of what befellthe people of Nuh, or the people of Hud, or the people ofSalih, nor are the people of Lut far off from you;
11/90 And ask forgiveness of your Lord, then turn to Him;surely my Lord is Merciful, Loving-kind.
11/91 They said: O Shu'aib! we do not understand much of whatyou say and most surely we see you to be weak among us, andwere it not for your family we would surely stone you, andyou are not mighty against us.
11/92 He said: O my people! is my family more esteemed by youthan Allah? And you neglect Him as a thing cast behind yourback; surely my Lord encompasses what you do:
11/93 And, O my people! act according to your ability, I tooam acting; you will come to know soon who it is on whom willlight the punishment that will disgrace him and who it isthat is a liar, and watch, surely I too am watching withyou.
11/94 And when Our decree came to pass We delivered Shu'aib,and those who believed with him by mercy from Us, and therumbling overtook those who were unjust so they becamemotionless bodies in their abodes,
11/95 As though they had never dwelt in them; now surelyperdition overtook Madyan as had perished Samood.
11/96 And certainly We sent Musa with Our communications and aclear authority,
11/97 To Firon and his chiefs, but they followed the biddingof Firon, and Firon's bidding was not right-directing.
11/98 He shall lead his people on the resurrection day, andbring them down to the fire; and evil the place to whichthey are brought.
11/99 And they are overtaken by curse in this (world), and onthe resurrection day, evil the gift which shall be given.
11/100 This is an account of (the fate of) the towns which Werelate to you; of them are some that stand and (others) mowndown.
11/101 And We did not do them injustice, but they were unjustto themselves, so their gods whom they called upon besidesAllah did not avail them aught when the decree of your Lordcame to pass; and they added but to their ruin.
11/102 And such is the punishment of your Lord when Hepunishes the towns while they are unjust; surely Hispunishment is painful, severe.
11/103 Most surely there is a sign in this for him who fearsthe chastisement of the hereafter; this is a day on whichthe people shall be gathered together and this is a day thatshall be witnessed.
11/104 And We do not delay it but to an appointed term.
11/105 On the day when it shall come, no soul shall speakexcept with His permission, then (some) of them shall beunhappy and (others) happy.
11/106 So as to those who are unhappy, they shall be in thefire; for them shall be sighing and groaning in it:
11/107 Abiding therein so long as the heavens and the earthendure, except as your Lord please; surely your Lord is themighty doer of what He intends.
11/108 And as to those who are made happy, they shall be inthe garden, abiding in it as long as the heavens and theearth endure, except as your Lord please; a gift which shallnever be cut off.
11/109 Therefore be not in doubt as to what these worship;they do not worship but as their fathers worshipped before;and most surely We will pay them back in full their portionundiminished.
11/110 And certainly We gave the book to Musa, but it was goneagainst; and had not a word gone forth from your Lord, thematter would surely have been decided between them; andsurely they are in a disquieting doubt about it.
11/111 And your Lord will most surely pay back to all theirdeeds in full; surely He is aware of what they do.
11/112 Continue then in the right way as you are commanded, asalso he who has turned (to Allah) with you, and be notinordinate (O men!), surely He sees what you do.
11/113 And do not incline to those who are unjust, lest thefire touch you, and you have no guardians besides Allah,then you shall not be helped.
11/114 And keep up prayer in the two parts of the day and inthe first hours of the night; surely good deeds take awayevil deeds this is a reminder to the mindful.
11/115 And be patient, for surely Allah does not waste thereward of the good-doers.
11/116 But why were there not among the generations before youthose possessing understanding, who should have forbiddenthe making of mischief in the earth, except a few of thosewhom We delivered from among them? And those who were unjustwent after what they are made to enjoy of plenty, and theywere guilty.
11/117 And it did not beseem your Lord to have destroyed thetowns tyrannously, while their people acted well.
11/118 And if your Lord had pleased He would certainly havemade people a single nation, and they shall continue todiffer.
11/119 Except those on whom your Lord has mercy; and for thisdid He create them; and the word of your Lord is fulfilled:Certainly I will fill hell with the jinn and the men, alltogether.
11/120 And all we relate to you of the accounts of themessengers is to strengthen your heart therewith; and in thishas come to you the truth and an admonition, and a reminderto the believers.
11/121 And say to those who do not believe: Act according toyour state; surely we too are acting.
11/122 And wait; surely we are waiting also.
11/123 And Allah's is the unseen in the heavens and the earth,and to Him is returned the whole of the affair; thereforeserve Him and rely on Him, and your Lord is not heedless ofwhat you do.
