14/1 Alif Lam Ra. (This is) a Book which We have revealed toyou that you may bring forth men, by their Lord's permissionfrom utter darkness into light-- to the way of the Mighty, thePraised One,
14/2 (Of) Allah, Whose is whatever is in the heavens andwhatever Is in the earth; and woe to the unbelievers onaccount of the severe chastisement,
14/3 (To) those who love this world's life more than thehereafter, and turn away from Allah's path and desire tomake it crooked; these are in a great error.
14/4 And We did not send any messenger but with the language ofhis people, so that he might explain to them clearly; thenAllah makes whom He pleases err and He guides whom Hepleases and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
14/5 And certainly We sent Musa with Our communications,saying: Bring forth your people from utter darkness intolight and remind them of the days of Allah; most surelythere are signs in this for every patient, grateful one.
14/6 And when Musa said to his people: Call to mind Allah'sfavor to you when He delivered you from Firon's people, whosubjected you to severe torment, and slew your sons andspared your women; and in this there was a great trial fromyour Lord.
14/7 And when your Lord made it known: If you are grateful, Iwould certainly give to you more, and if you are ungrateful,My chastisement is truly severe.
14/8 And Musa said: If you are ungrateful, you and those onearth all together, most surely Allah is Self-sufficient,Praised;
14/9 Has not the account reached you of those before you, ofthe people of Nuh and Ad and Samood, and those after them?None knows them but Allah. Their messengers come to them withclear arguments, but they thrust their hands into theirmouths and said: Surely we deny that with which you aresent, and most surely we are in serious doubt as to that towhich you invite us.
14/10 Their messengers said: Is there doubt about Allah, theMaker of the heavens and the earth? He invites you toforgive you your faults and to respite you till an appointedterm. They said: You are nothing but mortals like us; youwish to turn us away from what our fathers used to worship;bring us therefore some clear authority.
14/11 Their messengers said to them: We are nothing but mortalslike yourselves, but Allah bestows (His) favors on whom Hepleases of His servants, and it is not for us that we shouldbring you an authority except by Allah's permission; and onAllah should the believers rely.
14/12 And what reason have we that we should not rely onAllah? And He has indeed guided us in our ways; andcertainly we would bear with patience your persecution ofus; and on Allah should the reliant rely.
14/13 And those who disbelieved said to their messengers: Wewill most certainly drive you forth from our land, or elseyou shall come back into our religion. So their Lordrevealed to them: Most certainly We will destroy the unjust.
14/14 And most certainly We will settle you in the land afterthem; this is for him who fears standing in My presence andwho fears My threat.
14/15 And they asked for judgment and every insolent opposerwas disappointed:
14/16 Hell is before him and he shall be given to drink offestering water:
14/17 He will drink it little by little and will not be ableto swallow it agreeably, and death will come to him fromevery quarter, but he shall not die; and there shall bevehement chastisement before him.
14/18 The parable of those who disbelieve in their Lord: theiractions are like ashes on which the wind blows hard on astormy day; they shall not have power over any thing out ofwhat they have earned; this is the great error.
14/19 Do you not see that Allah created the heavens and theearth with truth? If He please He will take you off andbring a new creation,
14/20 And this is not difficult for Allah.
14/21 And they shall all come forth before Allah, then theweak shall say to those who were proud: Surely we were yourfollowers, can you therefore avert from us any part of thechastisement of Allah? They would say: If Allah had guidedus, we too would have guided you; it is the same to uswhether we are impatient (now) or patient, there is no placefor us to fly to.
14/22 And the Shaitan shall say after the affair is decided:Surely Allah promised you the promise of truth, and I gaveyou promises, then failed to keep them to you, and I had noauthority over you, except that I called you and you obeyedme, therefore do not blame me but blame yourselves: I cannotbe your aider (now) nor can you be my aiders; surely Idisbelieved in your associating me with Allah before; surelyit is the unjust that shall have the painful punishment.
14/23 And those who believe and do good are made to entergardens, beneath which rivers flow, to abide in them bytheir Lord's permission; their greeting therein is, Peace.
14/24 Have you not considered how Allah sets forth a parableof a good word (being) like a good tree, whose root is firmand whose branches are in heaven,
14/25 Yielding its fruit in every season by the permission ofits Lord? And Allah sets forth parables for men that theymay be mindful.
14/26 And the parable of an evil word is as an evil treepulled up from the earth's surface; it has no stability.
14/27 Allah confirms those who believe with the sure word inthis world's life and in the hereafter, and Allah causes theunjust to go astray, and Allah does what He pleases.
14/28 Have you not seen those who have changed Allah's favorfor ungratefulness and made their people to alight into theabode of perdition
14/29 (Into j hell? They shall enter into it and an evil placeit is to settle in.
14/30 And they set up equals with Allah that they may lead(people) astray from His path. Say: Enjoy yourselves, forsurely your return is to the fire.
14/31 Say to My servants who believe that they should keep upprayer and spend out of what We have given them secretly andopenly before the coming of the day in which there shall beno bartering nor mutual befriending.
14/32 Allah is He Who created the heavens and the earth andsent down water from the clouds, then brought forth with itfruits as a sustenance for you, and He has made the shipssubservient to you, that they might run their course in thesea by His command, and He has made the rivers subservientto you.
14/33 And He has made subservient to you the sun and the moonpursuing their courses, and He has made subservient to youthe night and the day.
14/34 And He gives you of all that you ask Him; and if youcount Allah's favors, you will not be able to number them;most surely man is very unjust, very ungrateful.
14/35 And when Ibrahim said: My Lord! make this city secure,and save me and my sons from worshipping idols:
14/36 My Lord! surely they have led many men astray; thenwhoever follows me, he is surely of me, and whoever disobeysme, Thou surely arc Forgiving, Merciful:
14/37 O our Lord! surely I have settled a part of my offspringin a valley unproductive of fruit near Thy Sacred House, ourLord! that they may keep up prayer; therefore make thehearts of some people yearn towards them and provide themwith fruits; haply they may be grateful:
14/38 O our Lord! Surely Thou knowest what we hide and what wemake public, and nothing in the earth nor any thing inheaven is hidden from Allah:
14/39 Praise be to Allah, Who has given me in old age Ismailand Ishaq; most surely my Lord is the Hearer of prayer:
14/40 My Lord! make me keep up prayer and from my offspring(too), O our Lord, and accept my prayer:
14/41 O our Lord! grant me protection and my parents and thebelievers on the day when the reckoning shall come to pass!
14/42 And do not think Allah to be heedless of what the unjustdo; He only respites them to a day on which the eyes shallbe fixedly open,
14/43 Hastening forward, their heads upraised, their eyes notreverting to them and their hearts vacant.
14/44 And warn people of the day when the chastisement shallcome to them, then those who were unjust will say: O ourLord! respite us to a near term, (so) we shall respond toThy call and follow the messengers. What! did you not swearbefore (that) there will be no passing away for you!
14/45 And you dwell in the abodes of those who were unjust tothemselves, and it is clear to you how We dealt with themand We have made (them) examples to you.
14/46 And they have indeed planned their plan, but their planis with Allah, though their plan was such that the mountainsshould pass away thereby.
14/47 Therefore do not think Allah (to be one) failing in Hispromise to His messengers; surely Allah is Mighty, the Lord ofRetribution.
14/48 On the day when the earth shall be changed into adifferent earth, and the heavens (as well), and they shallcome forth before Allah, the One, the Supreme.
14/49 And you will see the guilty on that day linked togetherin chains.
14/50 Their shirts made of pitch and the fire covering theirfaces
14/51 That Allah may requite each soul (according to) what ithas earned; surely Allah is swift in reckoning.
14/52 This is a sufficient exposition for the people and thatthey may be warned thereby, and that they may know that Heis One Allah and that those possessed of understanding maymind.
