17/1 Glory be to Him Who made His servant to go on a nightfrom the Sacred Mosque to the remote mosque of which We haveblessed the precincts, so that We may show to him some ofOur signs; surely He is the Hearing, the Seeing.
17/2 And We gave Musa the Book and made it a guidance to thechildren of Israel, saying: Do not take a protector besidesMe;
17/3 The offspring of those whom We bore with Nuh; surely hewas a grateful servant.
17/4 And We had made known to the children of Israel in theBook: Most certainly you will make mischief in the landtwice, and most certainly you will behave insolently withgreat insolence.
17/5 So when the promise for the first of the two came, Wesent over you Our servants, of mighty prowess, so they wentto and fro among the houses, and it was a promise to beaccomplished.
17/6 Then We gave you back the turn to prevail against them,and aided you with wealth and children and made you anumerous band.
17/7 If you do good, you will do good for your own souls, andif you do evil, it shall be for them. So when the secondpromise came (We raised another people) that they may bringyou to grief and that they may enter the mosque as theyentered it the first time, and that they might destroywhatever they gained ascendancy over with utter destruction.
17/8 It may be that your Lord will have mercy on you, and ifyou again return (to disobedience) We too will return (topunishment), and We have made hell a prison for theunbelievers.
17/9 Surely this Quran guides to that which is most uprightand gives good news to the believers who do good that theyshall have a great reward.
17/10 And that (as for) those who do not believe in thehereafter, We have prepared for them a painful chastisement.
17/11 And man prays for evil as he ought to pray for good, andman is ever hasty.
17/12 And We have made the night and the day two signs, thenWe have made the sign of the night to pass away and We havemade the sign of the day manifest, so that you may seekgrace from your Lord, and that you might know the numberingof years and the reckoning; and We have explained everythingwith distinctness.
17/13 And We have made every man's actions to cling to hisneck, and We will bring forth to him on the resurrection daya book which he will find wide open:
17/14 Read your book; your own self is sufficient as areckoner against you this day.
17/15 Whoever goes aright, for his own soul does he go aright;and whoever goes astray, to its detriment only does he goastray: nor can the bearer of a burden bear the burden ofanother, nor do We chastise until We raise a messenger.
17/16 And when We wish to destroy a town, We send Ourcommandment to the people of it who lead easy lives, butthey transgress therein; thus the word proves true againstit, so We destroy it with utter destruction.
17/17 And how many of the generations did We destroy afterNuh! and your Lord is sufficient as Knowing and Seeing withregard to His servants' faults.
17/18 Whoever desires this present life, We hasten to himtherein what We please for whomsoever We desire, then Weassign to him the hell; he shall enter it despised, drivenaway.
17/19 And whoever desires the hereafter and strives for it ashe ought to strive and he is a believer; (as for) these,their striving shall surely be accepted.
17/20 All do We aid-- these as well as those-- out of the bountyof your Lord, and the bounty of your Lord is not confined.
17/21 See how We have made some of them to excel others, andcertainly the hereafter is much superior in respect ofexcellence.
17/22 Do not associate with Allah any other god, lest you sitdown despised, neglected.
17/23 And your Lord has commanded that you shall not serve(any) but Him, and goodness to your parents. If either orboth of them reach old age with you, say not to them (somuch as) "Ugh" nor chide them, and speak to them a generousword.
17/24 And make yourself submissively gentle to them withcompassion, and say: O my Lord! have compassion on them, asthey brought me up (when I was) little.
17/25 Your Lord knows best what is in your minds; if you aregood, then He is surely Forgiving to those who turn (to Him)frequently.
17/26 And give to the near of kin his due and (to) the needyand the wayfarer, and do not squander wastefully.
17/27 Surely the squanderers are the fellows of the Shaitansand the Shaitan is ever ungrateful to his Lord.
17/28 And if you turn away from them to seek mercy from yourLord, which you hope for, speak to them a gentle word.
17/29 And do not make your hand to be shackled to your necknor stretch it forth to the utmost (limit) of its stretchingforth, lest you should (afterwards) sit down blamed,stripped off.
17/30 Surely your Lord makes plentiful the means ofsubsistence for whom He pleases and He straitens (them);surely He is ever Aware of, Seeing, His servants.
17/31 And do not kill your children for fear of poverty; Wegive them sustenance and yourselves (too); surely to killthem is a great wrong.
17/32 And go not nigh to fornication; surely it is anindecency and an evil way.
17/33 And do not kill any one whom Allah has forbidden, exceptfor a just cause, and whoever is slain unjustly, We haveindeed given to his heir authority, so let him not exceedthe just limits in slaying; surely he is aided.
17/34 And draw not near to the property of the orphan exceptin a goodly way till he attains his maturity and fulfill thepromise; surely (every) promise shall be questioned about.
17/35 And give full measure when you measure out, and weighwith a true balance; this is fair and better in the end.
17/36 And follow not that of which you have not the knowledge;surely the hearing and the sight and the heart, all ofthese, shall be questioned about that.
17/37 And do not go about in the land exultingly, for youcannot cut through the earth nor reach the mountains inheight.
17/38 All this-- the evil of it-- is hateful in the sight of yourLord.
17/39 This is of what your Lord has revealed to you of wisdom,and do not associate any other god with Allah lest youshould be thrown into hell, blamed, cast away.
17/40 What! has then your Lord preferred to give you sons, and(for Himself) taken daughters from among the angels? Mostsurely you utter a grievous saying.
17/41 And certainly We have repeated (warnings) in this Quranthat they may be mindful, but it does not add save to theiraversion.
17/42 Say: If there were with Him gods as they say, thencertainly they would have been able to seek a way to theLord of power.
17/43 Glory be to Him and exalted be He in high exaltationabove what they say.
17/44 The seven heavens declare His glory and the earth (too),and those who are in them; and there is not a single thingbut glorifies Him with His praise, but you do not understandtheir glorification; surely He is Forbearing, Forgiving.
17/45 And when you recite the Quran, We place between you andthose who do not believe in the hereafter a hidden barrier;
17/46 And We have placed coverings on their hearts and aheaviness in their ears lest they understand it, and whenyou mention your Lord alone in the Quran they turn theirbacks in aversion.
17/47 We know best what they listen to when they listen toyou, and when they take counsel secretly, when the unjustsay: You follow only a man deprived of reason.
17/48 See what they liken you to! So they have gone astray andcannot find the way.
17/49 And they say: What! when we shall have become bones anddecayed particles, shall we then certainly be raised up,being a new creation?
17/50 Say: Become stones or iron,
17/51 Or some other creature of those which are too hard (toreceive life) in your minds! But they will say: Who willreturn us? Say: Who created you at first. Still they willshake their heads at you and say: When will it be? Say:Maybe it has drawn nigh.
17/52 On the day when He will call you forth, then shall youobey Him, giving Him praise, and you will think that youtarried but a little (while).
17/53 And say to My servants (that) they speak that which isbest; surely the Shaitan sows dissensions among them; surelythe Shaitan is an open enemy to man.
17/54 Your Lord knows you best; He will have mercy on you ifHe pleases, or He will chastise you if He pleases; and Wehave not sent you as being in charge of them.
17/55 And your Lord best knows those who are in the heavens andthe earth; and certainly We have made some of the prophets toexcel others, and to Dawood We gave a scripture.
17/56 Say: Call on those whom you assert besides Him, so theyshall not control the removal of distress from you nor (its)transference.
17/57 Those whom they call upon, themselves seek the means ofaccess to their Lord-- whoever of them is nearest-- and theyhope for His mercy and fear His chastisement; surely thechastisement of your Lord is a thing to be cautious of.
17/58 And there is not a town but We will destroy it beforethe day of resurrection or chastise it with a severechastisement; this is written in the Divine ordinance.
17/59 And nothing could have hindered Us that We should sendsigns except that the ancients rejected them; and We gave toSamood the she-camel-- a manifest sign-- but on her account theydid injustice, and We do not send signs but to make (men)fear.
17/60 And when We said to you: Surely your Lord encompassesmen; and We did not make the vision which We showed you buta trial for men and the cursed tree in the Quran as well;and We cause them to fear, but it only adds to their greatinordinacy.
17/61 And when We said to the angels: Make obeisance to Adam;they made obeisance, but Iblis (did it not). He said: ShallI make obeisance to him whom Thou hast created of dust?
17/62 He said: Tell me, is this he whom Thou hast honoredabove me? If Thou shouldst respite me to the day ofresurrection, I will most certainly cause his progeny toperish except a few.
17/63 He said: Be gone! for whoever of them will follow you,then surely hell is your recompense, a full recompense:
17/64 And beguile whomsoever of them you can with your voice,and collect against them your forces riding and on foot, andshare with them in wealth and children, and hold outpromises to them; and the Shaitan makes not promises to thembut to deceive:
17/65 Surely (as for) My servants, you have no authority overthem; and your Lord is sufficient as a Protector.
17/66 Your Lord is He Who speeds the ships for you in the seathat you may seek of His grace; surely He is ever Mercifulto you.
17/67 And when distress afflicts you in the sea, away go thosewhom you call on except He; but when He brings you safe tothe land, you turn aside; and man is ever ungrateful.
17/68 What! Do you then feel secure that He will not cause atract of land to engulf you or send on you a tornado? Thenyou shall not find a protector for yourselves.
17/69 Or, do you feel secure that He will (not) take you backinto it another time, then send on you a fierce gale andthus drown you on account of your ungratefulness? Then youshall not find any aider against Us in the matter.
17/70 And surely We have honored the children of Adam, and Wecarry them in the land and the sea, and We have given themof the good things, and We have made them to excel by anappropriate excellence over most of those whom We havecreated.
17/71 (Remember) the day when We will call every people withtheir Imam; then whoever is given his book in his righthand, these shall read their book; and they shall not bedealt with a whit unjustly.
17/72 And whoever is blind in this, he shall (also) be blindin the hereafter; and more erring from the way.
17/73 And surely they had purposed to turn you away from thatwhich We have revealed to you, that you should forge againstUs other than that, and then they would certainly have takenyou for a friend.
17/74 And had it not been that We had already established you,you would certainly have been near to incline to them alittle;
17/75 In that case We would certainly have made you to taste adouble (punishment) in this life and a double (punishment)after death, then you would not have found any helperagainst Us.
17/76 And surely they purposed to unsettle you from the landthat they might expel you from it, and in that case theywill not tarry behind you but a little.
17/77 (This is Our) course with regard to those of Ourmessengers whom We sent before you, and you shall not find achange in Our course.
17/78 Keep up prayer from the declining of the sun till thedarkness of the night and the morning recitation; surely themorning recitation is witnessed.
17/79 And during a part of the night, pray Tahajjud beyondwhat is incumbent on you; maybe your Lord will raise you toa position of great glory.
17/80 And say: My Lord! make me to enter a goodly entering,and cause me to go forth a goodly going forth, and grant mefrom near Thee power to assist (me).
17/81 And say: The truth has come and the falsehood hasvanished; surely falsehood is a vanishing (thing).
17/82 And We reveal of the Quran that which is a healing and amercy to the believers, and it adds only to the perdition ofthe unjust.
17/83 And when We bestow favor on man, he turns aside andbehaves proudly, and when evil afflicts him, he isdespairing.
17/84 Say: Every one acts according to his manner; but yourLord best knows who is best guided in the path.
17/85 And they ask you about the soul. Say: The soul is one ofthe commands of my Lord, and you are not given aught ofknowledge but a little.
17/86 And if We please, We should certainly take away thatwhich We have revealed to you, then you would not find forit any protector against Us.
17/87 But on account of mercy from your Lord-- surely His graceto you is abundant.
17/88 Say: If men and jinn should combine together to bringthe like of this Quran, they could not bring the like of it,though some of them were aiders of others.
17/89 And certainly We have explained for men in this Quranevery kind of similitude, but most men do not consent toaught but denying.
17/90 And they say: We will by no means believe in you untilyou cause a fountain to gush forth from the earth for us.
17/91 Or you should have a garden of palms and grapes in themidst of which you should cause rivers to flow forth,gushing out.
17/92 Or you should cause the heaven to come down upon us inpieces as you think, or bring Allah and the angels face toface (with us).
17/93 Or you should have a house of gold, or you should ascendinto heaven, and we will not believe in your ascending untilyou bring down to us a book which we may read. Say: Glory beto my Lord; am I aught but a mortal messenger?
17/94 And nothing prevented people from believing when theguidance came to them except that they said: What! has Allahraised up a mortal to be a messenger?
17/95 Say: Had there been in the earth angels walking about assettlers, We would certainly have sent down to them from theheaven an angel as a messenger.
17/96 Say: Allah suffices as a witness between me and you;surely He is Aware of His servants, Seeing.
17/97 And whomsoever Allah guides, he is the follower of theright way, and whomsoever He causes to err, you shall notfind for him guardians besides Him; and We will gather themtogether on the day of resurrection on their faces, blindand dumb and deaf; their abode is hell; whenever it becomesallayed We will add to their burning.
17/98 This is their retribution because they disbelieved inOur communications and said What! when we shall have becomebones and decayed particles, shall we then indeed be raisedup into a new creation?
17/99 Do they not consider that Allah, Who created the heavensand the earth, is able to create their like, and He hasappointed for them a doom about which there is no doubt? Butthe unjust do not consent to aught but denying.
17/100 Say: If you control the treasures of the mercy of myLord, then you would withhold (them) from fear of spending,and man is niggardly.
17/101 And certainly We gave Musa nine clear signs; so ask thechildren of Israel. When he came to them, Firon said to him:Most surely I deem you, O Musa, to be a man deprived ofreason.
17/102 He said: Truly you know that none but the Lord of theheavens and the earth has sent down these as clear proof andmost surely I believe you, O Firon, to be given over toperdition.
17/103 So he desired to destroy them out of the earth, but Wedrowned him and those with him all together;
17/104 And We said to the Israelites after him: Dwell in theland: and when the promise of the next life shall come topass, we will bring you both together in judgment.
17/105 And with truth have We revealed it, and with truth didit come; and We have not sent you but as the giver of goodnews and as a warner.
17/106 And it is a Quran which We have revealed in portions sothat you may read it to the people by slow degrees, and Wehave revealed it, revealing in portions.
17/107 Say: Believe in it or believe not; surely those who aregiven the knowledge before it fall down on their faces,making obeisance when it is recited to them.
17/108 And they say: Glory be to our Lord! most surely thepromise of our Lord was to be fulfilled.
17/109 And they fall down on their faces weeping, and it addsto their humility.
17/110 Say: Call upon Allah or call upon, the Beneficent Allah;whichever you call upon, He has the best names; and do notutter your prayer with a very raised voice nor be silentwith regard to it, and seek a way between these.
17/111 And say: (All) praise is due to Allah, Who has nottaken a son and Who has not a partner in the kingdom, andWho has not a helper to save Him from disgrace; and proclaimHis greatness magnifying (Him).
