47/1 (As for) those who disbelieve and turn away from Allah'sway, He shall render their works ineffective.
47/2 And (as for) those who believe and do good, and believein what has been revealed to Muhammad, and it is the verytruth from their Lord, He will remove their evil from themand improve their condition.
47/3 That is because those who disbelieve follow falsehood,and have given them their dowries, taking (them) inmarriage, not fornicating nor taking them for paramours insecret; and whoever denies faith, his work indeed is of noaccount, and in the hereafter he shall be one of the losers.
47/4 So when you meet in battle those who disbelieve, thensmite the necks until when you have overcome them, then make(them) prisoners, and afterwards either set them free as afavor or let them ransom (themselves) until the warterminates. That (shall be so); and if Allah had pleased Hewould certainly have exacted what is due from them, but thatHe may try some of you by means of others; and (as for)those who are slain in the way of Allah, He will by no meansallow their deeds to perish.
47/5 He will guide them and improve their condition.
47/6 And cause them to enter the garden which He has madeknown to them.
47/7 O you who believe ! if you help (the cause of) Allah, Hewill help you and make firm your feet.
47/8 And (as for) those who disbelieve, for them isdestruction and He has made their deeds ineffective.
47/9 That is because they hated what Allah revealed, so Herendered their deeds null.
47/10 Have they not then journeyed in the land and seen howwas the end of those before them: Allah brought downdestruction upon them, and the unbelievers shall have thelike of it.
47/11 That is because Allah is the Protector of those whobelieve, and because the unbelievers shall have no protectorfor them.
47/12 Surely Allah will make those who believe and do goodenter gardens beneath which rivers flow; and those whodisbelieve enjoy themselves and eat as the beasts eat, andthe fire is their abode.
47/13 And how many a town which was far more powerful than thetown of yours which has driven you out: We destroyed them sothere was no helper for them.
47/14 What! is he who has a clear argument from his Lord likehim to whom the evil of his work is made fairseeming: andthey follow their low desires.
47/15 A parable of the garden which those guarding (againstevil) are promised: Therein are rivers of water that doesnot alter, and rivers of milk the taste whereof does notchange, and rivers of drink delicious to those who drink,and rivers of honey clarified and for them therein are allfruits and protection from their Lord. (Are these) likethose who abide in the fire and who are made to drinkboiling water so it rends their bowels asunder.
47/16 And there are those of them who seek to listen to you,until when they go forth from you, they say to those whohave been given the knowledge: What was it that he said justnow? These are they upon whose hearts Allah has set a sealand they follow their low desires.
47/17 And (as for) those who follow the right direction, Heincreases them in guidance and gives them their guarding(against evil).
47/18 Do they then wait for aught but the hour that it shouldcome to them all of a sudden? Now indeed the tokens of ithave (already) come, but how shall they have their reminderwhen it comes on them?
47/19 So know that there is no god but Allah, and, askprotection for your fault and for the believing men and thebelieving women; and Allah knows the place of your returningand the place of your abiding.
47/20 And those who believe say: Why has not a chapter beenrevealed? But when a decisive chapter is revealed, andfighting is mentioned therein you see those in whose heartsis a disease look to you with the look of one faintingbecause of death. Woe to them then!
47/21 Obedience and a gentle word (was proper); but when theaffair becomes settled, then if they remain true to Allah itwould certainly be better for them.
47/22 But if you held command, you were sure to make mischiefin the land and cut off the ties of kinship!
47/23 Those it is whom Allah has cursed so He has made themdeaf and blinded their eyes.
47/24 Do they not then reflect on the Quran? Nay, on thehearts there are locks.
47/25 Surely (as for) those who return on their backs afterthat guidance has become manifest to them, the Shaitan hasmade it a light matter to them; and He gives them respite.
47/26 That is because they say to those who hate what Allahhas revealed: We will obey you in some of the affairs; andAllah knows their secrets.
47/27 But how will it be when the angels cause them to diesmiting their backs.
47/28 That is because they follow what is displeasing to Allahand are averse to His pleasure, therefore He has made nulltheir deeds.
47/29 Or do those in whose hearts is a disease think thatAllah will not bring forth their spite?
47/30 And if We please We would have made you know them sothat you would certainly have recognized them by their marksand most certainly you can recognize them by the intent of(their) speech; and Allah knows your deeds.
47/31 And most certainly We will try you until We have knownthose among you who exert themselves hard, and the patient,and made your case manifest.
47/32 Surely those who disbelieve and turn away from Allah'sway and oppose the Messenger after that guidance has becomeclear to them cannot harm Allah in any way, and He will makenull their deeds.
47/33 O you who believe! obey Allah and obey the Messenger, anddo not make your deeds of no effect.
47/34 Surely those who disbelieve and turn away from Allah'sway, then they die while they are unbelievers, Allah will byno means forgive them.
47/35 And be not slack so as to cry for peace and you have theupper hand, and Allah is with you, and He will not bringyour deeds to naught.
47/36 The life of this world is only idle sport and play, andif you believe and guard (against evil) He will give youyour rewards, and will not ask of you your possessions.
47/37 If He should ask you for it and urge you, you will beniggardly, and He will bring forth your malice.
47/38 Behold! you are those who are called upon to spend inAllah's way, but among you are those who are niggardly, andwhoever is niggardly is niggardly against his own soul; andAllah is Self-sufficient and you have need (of Him), and ifyou turn back He will bring in your place another people,then they will not be like you.
