40/1 Ha Mim.
40/2 The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the Mighty, theKnowing,
40/3 The Forgiver of the faults and the Acceptor ofrepentance, Severe to punish, Lord of bounty; there is nogod but He; to Him is the eventual coming.
40/4 None dispute concerning the communications of Allah butthose who disbelieve, therefore let not their going to andfro in the cities deceive you.
40/5 The people of Nuh and the parties after them rejected(prophets) before them, and every nation purposed againsttheir messenger to destroy him, and they disputed by means ofthe falsehood that they might thereby render null the truth,therefore I destroyed them; how was then My retribution!
40/6 And thus did the word of your Lord prove true againstthose who disbelieved that they are the inmates of the fire.
40/7 Those who bear the power and those around Him celebratethe praise of their Lord and believe in Him and askprotection for those who believe: Our Lord! Thou embracestall things in mercy and knowledge, therefore grantprotection to those who turn (to Thee) and follow Thy way,and save them from the punishment of the hell:
40/8 Our Lord! and make them enter the gardens of perpetuitywhich Thou hast promised to them and those who do good oftheir fathers and their wives and their offspring, surelyThou are the Mighty, the Wise.
40/9 And keep them from evil deeds, and whom Thou keepest fromevil deeds this day, indeed Thou hast mercy on him, and thatis the mighty achievement.
40/10 Surely those who disbelieve shall be cried out to:Certainly Allah's hatred (of you) when you were called uponto the faith and you rejected, is much greater than yourhatred of yourselves.
40/11 They shall say: Our Lord! twice didst Thou make ussubject to death, and twice hast Thou given us life, so wedo confess our faults; is there then a way to get out?
40/12 That is because when Allah alone was called upon, youdisbelieved, and when associates were given to Him, youbelieved; so judgment belongs to Allah, the High, the Great.
40/13 He it is Who shows you His signs and sends down for yousustenance from heaven, and none minds but he who turns (toHim) again and again.
40/14 Therefore call upon Allah, being sincere to Him inobedience, though the unbelievers are averse:
40/15 Possessor of the highest rank, Lord of power: He makesthe inspiration to light by His command upon whom He pleasesof His servants, that he may warn (men) of the day ofmeeting.
40/16 (Of) the day when they shall come forth, nothingconcerning them remains hidden to Allah. To whom belongs thekingdom this day? To Allah, the One, the Subduer (of all).
40/17 This day every soul shall be rewarded for what it hasearned; no injustice (shall be done) this day; surely Allahis quick in reckoning.
40/18 And warn them of the day that draws near, when heartsshall rise up to the throats, grieving inwardly; the unjustshall not have any compassionate friend nor any intercessorwho should be obeyed.
40/19 He knows the stealthy looks and that which the breastsconceal.
40/20 And Allah judges with the truth; and those whom theycall upon besides Him cannot judge aught; surely Allah isthe Hearing, the Seeing.
40/21 Have they not travelled in the earth and seen how wasthe end of those who were before them? Mightier than thesewere they in strength-- and in fortifications in the land, butAllah destroyed them for their sins; and there was not forthem any defender against Allah.
40/22 That was because there came to them their messengers withclear arguments, but they rejected (them), therefore Allahdestroyed them; surely He is Strong, Severe in retribution.
40/23 And certainly We sent Musa with Our communications andclear authority,
40/24 To Firon and Haman and Qaroun, but they said: A lyingmagician.
40/25 So when he brought to them the truth from Us, they said:Slay the sons of those who believe with him and keep theirwomen alive; and the struggle of the unbelievers will onlycome to a state of perdition.
40/26 And Firon said: Let me alone that I may slay Musa andlet him call upon his Lord; surely I fear that he willchange your religion or that he will make mischief to appearin the land.
40/27 And Musa said: Surely I take refuge with my Lord and--your Lord from every proud one who does not believe in theday of reckoning.
40/28 And a believing man of Firon's people who hid his faithsaid: What! will you slay a man because he says: My Lord isAllah, and indeed he has brought to you clear arguments fromyour Lord? And if he be a liar, on him will be his lie, andif he be truthful, there will befall you some of that whichhe threatens you (with); surely Allah does not guide him whois extravagant, a liar:
40/29 O my people! yours is the kingdom this day, beingmasters in the land, but who will help us against thepunishment of Allah if it come to us? Firon said: I do notshow you aught but that which I see (myself), and I do notmake you follow any but the right way.
40/30 And he who believed said: O my people! surely I fear foryou the like of what befell the parties:
40/31 The like of what befell the people of Nuh and Ad andSamood and those after them, and Allah does not desireinjustice for (His) servants;
40/32 And, O my people! I fear for you the day of calling out,
40/33 The day on which you will turn back retreating; thereshall be no savior for you from Allah, and whomsoever Allahcauses to err, there is no guide for him:
40/34 And certainly Yusuf came to you before with cleararguments, but you ever remained in doubt as to what hebrought; until when he died, you said: Allah will neverraise a messenger after him. Thus does Allah cause him to errwho is extravagant, a doubter
40/35 Those who dispute concerning the communications of Allahwithout any authority that He has given them; greatly hatedis it by Allah and by-those who believe. Thus does Allah seta seal over the heart of every proud, haughty one.
40/36 And Firon said: O Haman! build for me a tower that I mayattain the means of access,
40/37 The means of access to the heavens, then reach the godof Musa, and I surely think him to be a liar. And thus theevil of his deed was made fairseeming to Firon, and he wasturned away from the way; and the struggle of Firon was not(to end) in aught but destruction.
40/38 And he who believed said: O my people! follow me, I willguide you to the right course;
40/39 O my people! this life of the world is only a (passing)enjoyment, and surely the hereafter is the abode to settle;
40/40 Whoever does an evil, he shall not be recompensed (withaught) but the like of it, and whoever does good, whethermale or female, and he is a believer, these shall enter thegarden, in which they shall be given sustenance withoutmeasure.
40/41 And, O my people! how is it that I call you to salvationand you call me to the fire?
40/42 You call on me that I should disbelieve in Allah andassociate with Him that of which I have no knowledge, and Icall you to the Mighty, the most Forgiving;
40/43 No doubt that what you call me to has no title to becalled to in this world, nor in the hereafter, and that ourturning back is to Allah, and that the extravagant are theinmates of the fire;
40/44 So you shall remember what I say to you, and I entrustmy affair to Allah, Surely Allah sees the servants.
40/45 So Allah protected him from the evil (consequences) ofwhat they planned, and the most evil punishment overtookFiron's people:
40/46 The fire; they shall be brought before it (every)morning and evening and on the day when the hour shall cometo pass: Make Firon's people enter the severestchastisement.
40/47 And when they shall contend one with another in thefire, then the weak shall say to those who were proud:Surely we were your followers; will you then avert from us aportion of the fire?
40/48 Those who were proud shall say: Surely we are all in it:surely Allah has judged between the servants.
40/49 And those who are in the fire shall say to the keepersof hell: Call upon your Lord that He may lighten to us oneday of the punishment.
40/50 They shall say: Did not your messengers come to you withclear arguments? They shall say: Yea. They shall say: Thencall. And the call of the unbelievers is only in error.
40/51 Most surely We help Our messengers, and those whobelieve, in this world's life and on the day when thewitnesses shall stand
40/52 The day on which their excuse shall not benefit theunjust, and for them is curse and for them is the evilabode.
40/53 And certainly We gave Musa the guidance, and We made thechildren of Israel inherit the Book,
40/54 A guidance and a reminder to the men of understanding.
40/55 Therefore be patient; surely the promise of Allah istrue; and ask protection for your fault and sing the praiseof your Lord in the evening and the morning.
40/56 Surely (as for) those who dispute about thecommunications of Allah without any authority that has cometo them, there is naught in their breasts but (a desire) tobecome great which they shall never attain to; Thereforeseek refuge in Allah, surely He is the Hearing, the Seeing.
40/57 Certainly the creation of the heavens and the earth isgreater than the creation of the men, but most people do notknow
40/58 And the blind and the seeing are not alike, nor thosewho believe and do good and the evil-doer; little is it thatyou are mindful.
40/59 Most surely the hour is coming, there is no doubttherein, but most people do not believe.
40/60 And your Lord says: Call upon Me, I will answer you;surely those who are too proud for My service shall soonenter hell abased.
40/61 Allah is He Who made for you the night that you may resttherein and the day to see; most surely Allah is Gracious tomen, but most men do not give thanks.
40/62 That is Allah, your Lord, the Creator of everything;there is no Allah but He; whence are you then turned away?
40/63 Thus were turned away those who denied thecommunications of Allah.
40/64 Allah is He Who made the earth a resting-place for youand the heaven a canopy, and He formed you, then made goodlyyour forms, and He provided you with goodly things; that isAllah, your Lord; blessed then is Allah, the Lord of theworlds.
40/65 He is the Living, there is no god but He, therefore callon Him, being sincere to Him in obedience; (all) praise isdue to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
40/66 Say: I am forbidden to serve those whom you call uponbesides Allah when clear arguments have come to me from myLord, and I am commanded that I should submit to the Lord ofthe worlds.
40/67 He it is Who created you from dust, then from a smalllifegerm, then from a clot, then He brings you forth as achild, then that you may attain your maturity, then that youmay be old-- and of you there are some who are caused to diebefore-- and that you may reach an appointed term, and thatyou may understand.
40/68 He it is Who gives life and brings death, so when Hedecrees an affair, He only says to it: Be, and it is.
40/69 Have you not seen those who dispute with respect to thecommunications of Allah: how are they turned away?
40/70 Those who reject the Book and that with which We havesent Our Messenger; but they shall soon come to know,
40/71 When the fetters and the chains shall be on their necks;they shall be dragged
40/72 Into boiling water, then in the fire shall they be burned;
40/73 Then shall it be said to them: Where is that which youused to set up
40/74 Besides Allah? They shall say: They are gone away fromus, nay, we used not to call upon anything before. Thus doesAllah confound the unbelievers.
40/75 That is because you exulted in the land unjustly andbecause you behaved insolently.
40/76 Enter the gates of hell to abide therein, evil then isthe abode of the proud.
40/77 So be patient, surely the promise of Allah is true. Soshould We make you see part of what We threaten them with,or should We cause you to die, to Us shall they be returned.
40/78 And certainly We sent messengers before you: there aresome of them that We have mentioned to you and there areothers whom We have not mentioned to you, and it was notmeet for a messenger that he should bring a sign except withAllah's permission, but when the command of Allah came,judgment was given with truth, and those who treated (it) asa lie were lost.
40/79 Allah is He Who made the cattle for you that you mayride on some of them, and some of them you eat.
40/80 And there are advantages for you in them, and that youmay attain thereon a want which is in your breasts, and uponthem and upon the ships you are borne.
40/81 And He shows you His signs: which then of Allah's signswill you deny?
40/82 Have they not then journeyed in the land and seen howwas the end of those before them? They were more (innumbers) than these and greater in strength and infortifications in the land, but what they earned did notavail them.
40/83 Then when their messengers came to them with cleararguments, they exulted in what they had with them ofknowledge, and there beset them that which they used tomock.
40/84 But when they saw Our punishment, they said: We believein Allah alone and we deny what we used to associate withHim.
40/85 But their belief was not going to profit them when theyhad seen Our punishment; (this is) Allah's law, which hasindeed obtained in the matter of His servants, and there theunbelievers are lost.
