60/1 O you who believe! do not take My enemy and your enemyfor friends: would you offer them love while they deny whathas come to you of the truth, driving out the Messenger andyourselves because you believe in Allah, your Lord? If yougo forth struggling hard in My path and seeking My pleasure,would you manifest love to them? And I know what you concealand what you manifest; and whoever of you does this, heindeed has gone astray from the straight path.
60/2 If they find you, they will be your enemies, and willstretch forth towards you their hands and their tongues withevil, and they ardently desire that you may disbelieve.
60/3 Your relationship would not profit you, nor your childrenon the day of resurrection; He will decide between you; andAllah sees what you do.
60/4 Indeed, there is for you a good example in Ibrahim andthose with him when they said to their people: Surely we areclear of you and of what you serve besides Allah; we declareourselves to be clear of you, and enmity and hatred haveappeared between us and you forever until you believe inAllah alone-- but not in what Ibrahim said to his father: Iwould certainly ask forgiveness for you, and I do notcontrol for you aught from Allah-- Our Lord! on Thee do werely, and to Thee do we turn, and to Thee is the eventualcoming:
60/5 Our Lord! do not make us a trial for those whodisbelieve, and forgive us, our Lord! surely Thou art theMighty, the Wise.
60/6 Certainly there is for you in them a good example, forhim who fears Allah and the last day; and whoever turnsback, then surely Allah is the Self-sufficient, the Praised.
60/7 It may be that Allah will bring about friendship betweenyou and those whom you hold to be your enemies among them;and Allah is Powerful; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
60/8 Allah does not forbid you respecting those who have notmade war against you on account of (your) religion, and havenot driven you forth from your homes, that you show themkindness and deal with them justly; surely Allah loves thedoers of justice.
60/9 Allah only forbids you respecting those who made war uponyou on account of (your) religion, and drove you forth fromyour homes and backed up (others) in your expulsion, thatyou make friends with them, and whoever makes friends withthem, these are the unjust.
60/10 O you who believe! when believing women come to youflying, then examine them; Allah knows best their faith;then if you find them to be believing women, do not sendthem back to the unbelievers, neither are these (women)lawful for them, nor are those (men) lawful for them, andgive them what they have spent; and no blame attaches to youin marrying them when you give them their dowries; and holdnot to the ties of marriage of unbelieving women, and askfor what you have spent, and kt them ask for what they havespent. That is Allah's judgment; He judges between you, andAllah is Knowing, Wise.
60/11 And if anything (out of the dowries) of your wives haspassed away from you to the unbelievers, then your turncomes, give to those whose wives have gone away the like ofwhat they have spent, and be careful of (your duty to) Allahin Whom you believe.
60/12 O Prophet! when believing women come to you giving you apledge that they will not associate aught with Allah, andwill not steal, and will not commit fornication, and willnot kill their children, and will not bring a calumny whichthey have forged of themselves, and will not disobey you inwhat is good, accept their pledge, and ask forgiveness forthem from Allah; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
60/13 O you who believe! do not make friends with a peoplewith whom Allah is wroth; indeed they despair of thehereafter as the unbelievers despair of those in tombs.
