63/1 When the hypocrites come to you, they say: We bearwitness that you are most surely Allah's Messenger; and Allahknows that you are most surely His Messenger, and Allah bearswitness that the hypocrites are surely liars.
63/2 They make their oaths a shelter, and thus turn away fromAllah's way; surely evil is that which they do.
63/3 That is because they believe, then disbelieve, so a sealis set upon their hearts so that they do not understand.
63/4 And when you see them, their persons will please you, andIf they speak, you will listen to their speech; (they are)as if they were big pieces of wood clad with garments; theythink every cry to be against them. They are the enemy,therefore beware of them; may Allah destroy them, whence arethey turned back?
63/5 And when it is said to them: Come, the Messenger of Allahwill ask forgiveness for you, they turn back their heads andyou may see them turning away while they are big with pride.
63/6 It is alike to them whether you beg forgiveness for themor do not beg forgiveness for them; Allah will never forgivethem; surely Allah does not guide the transgressing people.
63/7 They it is who say: Do not spend upon those who are withthe Messenger of Allah until they break up. And Allah's arethe treasures of the heavens and the earth, but thehypocrites do not understand.
63/8 They say: If we return to Medina, the mighty will surelydrive out the meaner therefrom; and to Allah belongs themight and to His Messenger and to the believers, but thehypocrites do not know.
63/9 O you who believe! let not your wealth, or your children,divert you from the remembrance of Allah; and whoever doesthat, these are the losers.
63/10 And spend out of what We have given you before deathcomes to one of you, so that he should say: My Lord! whydidst Thou not respite me to a near term, so that I shouldhave given alms and been of the doers of good deeds?
63/11 And Allah does not respite a soul when its appointedterm has come, and Allah is Aware of what you do.
