27/1 Ta Sin! These are the verses of the Quran and the Bookthat makes (things) clear
27/2 A guidance and good news for the believers,
27/3 Who keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate, and of thehereafter, they are sure.
27/4 As to those who do not believe in the hereafter, We havesurely made their deeds fair-seeming to them, but theyblindly wander on.
27/5 These are they who shall have an evil punishment, and inthe hereafter they shall be the greatest losers.
27/6 And most surely you are made to receive the Quran fromthe Wise, the Knowing Allah.
27/7 When Musa said to his family: Surely I see fire; I willbring to you from it some news, or I will bring to youtherefrom a burning firebrand so that you may warmyourselves.
27/8 So when he came to it a voice was uttered saying: Blessedis Whoever is in the fire and whatever is about it; andglory be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds;
27/9 O Musa! surely I am Allah, the Mighty, the Wise;
27/10 And cast down your staff. So when he saw it in motion asif it were a serpent, he turned back retreating and did notreturn: O Musa! fear not; surely the messengers shall not fearin My presence;
27/11 Neither he who has been unjust, then he does goodinstead after evil, for surely I am the Forgiving, theMerciful:
27/12 And enter your hand into the opening of your bosom, itshall come forth white without evil; among nine signs toFiron and his people, surely they are a transgressingpeople.
27/13 So when Our clear signs came to them, they said: This isclear enchantment.
27/14 And they denied them unjustly and proudly while theirsoul had been convinced of them; consider, then how was theend of the mischief-makers.
27/15 And certainly We gave knowledge to Dawood and Sulaiman,and they both said: Praise be to Allah, Who has made us toexcel many of His believing servants.
27/16 And Sulaiman was Dawood's heir, and he said: O men! wehave been taught the language of birds, and we have beengiven all things; most surely this is manifest grace.
27/17 And his hosts of the jinn and the men and the birds weregathered to him, and they were formed into groups.
27/18 Until when they came to the valley of the Naml, aNamlite said: O Naml! enter your houses, (that) Sulaiman andhis hosts may not crush you while they do not know.
27/19 So he smiled, wondering at her word, and said: My Lord!grant me that I should be grateful for Thy favor which Thouhast bestowed on me and on my parents, and that I should dogood such as Thou art pleased with, and make me enter, byThy mercy, into Thy servants, the good ones.
27/20 And he reviewed the birds, then said: How is it I seenot the hoopoe or is it that he is of the absentees?
27/21 I will most certainly punish him with a severepunishment, or kill him, or he shall bring to me a clearplea.
27/22 And he tarried not long, then said: I comprehend thatwhich you do not comprehend and I have brought to you a sureinformation from Sheba.
27/23 Surely I found a woman ruling over them, and she hasbeen given abundance and she has a mighty throne:
27/24 I found her and her people adoring the sun instead ofAllah, and the Shaitan has made their deeds fair-seeming tothem and thus turned them from the way, so they do not goaright
27/25 That they do not make obeisance to Allah, Who bringsforth what is hidden in the heavens and the earth and knowswhat you hide and what you make manifest:
27/26 Allah, there is no god but He: He is the Lord of mightypower.
27/27 He said: We will see whether you have told the truth orwhether you are of the liars:
27/28 Take this my letter and hand it over to them, then turnaway from them and see what (answer) they return.
27/29 She said: O chief! surely an honorable letter has beendelivered to me
27/30 Surely it is from Sulaiman, and surely it is in the nameof Allah, the Beneficent, the Merciful;
27/31 Saying: exalt not yourselves against me and come to mein submission.
27/32 She said: O chiefs! give me advice respecting my affair:I never decide an affair until you are in my presence.
27/33 They said: We are possessors of strength and possessorsof mighty prowess, and the command is yours, therefore seewhat you will command.
27/34 She said: Surely the kings, when they enter a town, ruinit and make the noblest of its people to be low, and thusthey (always) do;
27/35 And surely I am going to send a present to them, andshall wait to see what (answer) do the messengers bringback.
27/36 So when he came to Sulaiman, he said: What! will youhelp me with wealth? But what Allah has given me is betterthan what He has given you. Nay, you are exultant because ofyour present;
27/37 Go back to them, so we will most certainly come to themwith hosts which they shall have no power to oppose, and wewill most certainly expel them therefrom in abasement, andthey shall be in a state of ignominy.
27/38 He said: O chiefs! which of you can bring to me herthrone before they come to me in submission?
27/39 One audacious among the jinn said: I will bring it toyou before you rise up from your place; and most surely I amstrong (and) trusty for it.
27/40 One who had the knowledge of the Book said: I will bringit to you in the twinkling of an eye. Then when he saw itsettled beside him, he said: This is of the grace of my Lordthat He may try me whether I am grateful or ungrateful; andwhoever is grateful, he is grateful only for his own soul,and whoever is ungrateful, then surely my Lord isSelf-sufficient, Honored.
27/41 He said: Alter her throne for her, we will see whethershe follows the right way or is of those who do not goaright.
27/42 So when she came, it was said: Is your throne like this?She said: It is as it were the same, and we were given theknowledge before it, and we were submissive.
27/43 And what she worshipped besides Allah prevented her,surely she was of an unbelieving people.
27/44 It was said to her: Enter the palace; but when she sawit she deemed it to be a great expanse of water, and baredher legs. He said: Surely it is a palace made smooth withglass. She said: My Lord! surely I have been unjust tomyself, and I submit with Sulaiman to Allah, the Lord of theworlds.
27/45 And certainly We sent to Samood their brother Salih,saying: Serve Allah; and lo! they became two sectsquarrelling with each other.
27/46 He said: O my people! why do you seek to hasten on theevil before the good? Why do you not ask forgiveness ofAllah so that you may be dealt with mercifully?
27/47 They said: We have met with ill luck on account of youand on account of those with you. He said: The cause of yourevil fortune is with Allah; nay, you are a people who aretried.
27/48 And there were in the city nine persons who mademischief in the land and did not act aright.
27/49 They said: Swear to each other by Allah that we willcertainly make a sudden attack on him and his family bynight, then we will say to his heir: We did not witness thedestruction of his family, and we are most surely truthful.
27/50 And they planned a plan, and We planned a plan whilethey perceived not.
27/51 See, then, how was the end of their plan that Wedestroyed them and their people, all (of them).
27/52 So those are their houses fallen down because they wereunjust, most surely there is a sign in this for a people whoknow.
27/53 .And We delivered those who believed and who guarded(against evil).
27/54 And (We sent) Lut, when he said to his people: What! doyou commit indecency while you see?
27/55 What! do you indeed approach men lustfully rather thanwomen? Nay, you are a people who act ignorantly.
27/56 But the answer of his people was no other except thatthey ~s said: Turn out Lut's followers from your town;surely they are a people who would keep pure!
27/57 But We delivered him and his followers except his wife;We ordained her to be of those who remained behind.
27/58 And We rained on them a rain, and evil was the rain ofthose who had been warned.
27/59 Say: Praise be to Allah and peace on His servants whomHe has chosen: is Allah better, or what they associate (withHim)?
27/60 Nay, He Who created the heavens and the earth, and sentdown for you water from the cloud; then We cause to growthereby beautiful gardens; it is not possible for you thatyou should make the trees thereof to grow. Is there a godwith Allah? Nay! they are people who deviate.
27/61 Or, Who made the earth a restingplace, and made in itrivers, and raised on it mountains and placed between thetwo seas a barrier. Is there a god with Allah? Nay! most ofthem do not know!
27/62 Or, Who answers the distressed one when he calls uponHim and removes the evil, and He will make you successors inthe earth. Is there a god with Allah? Little is it that youmind!
27/63 Or, Who guides you in utter darkness of the land and thesea, and Who sends the winds as good news before His mercy.Is there a god with Allah? Exalted by Allah above what theyassociate (with Him).
27/64 Or, Who originates the creation, then reproduces it andWho gives you sustenance from the heaven and the earth. Isthere a god With Allah? Say: Bring your proof if you aretruthful.
27/65 Say: No one in the heavens and the earth knows theunseen but Allah; and they do not know when they shall beraised.
27/66 Nay, their knowledge respecting the hereafter is slightand hasty; nay, they are in doubt about it; nay, they arequite blind to
27/67 And those who disbelieve say: What! when we have becomedust and our fathers (too), shall we certainly be broughtforth?
27/68 We have certainly been promised this, we and our fathersbefore; these are naught but stories of the ancients
27/69 Say: Travel in the earth, then see how was the end ofthe guilty.
27/70 And grieve not for them and be not distressed because ofwhat they plan.
27/71 And they say: When will this threat come to pass, if youare truthful?
27/72 Say: Maybe there may have drawn near to you somewhat ofthat which you seek to hasten on.
27/73 And surely your Lord is the Lord of grace to men, butmost of them are not grateful.
27/74 And most surely your Lord knows what their breastsconceal and what they manifest.
27/75 And there is nothing concealed in the heaven and theearth but it is in a clear book.
27/76 Surely this Quran declares to the children of Israelmost of what they differ in.
27/77 And most surely it is a guidance and a mercy for thebelievers.
27/78 Surely your Lord will judge between them by hisjudgment, and He is the Mighty, the knowing.
27/79 Therefore rely on Allah; surely you are on the cleartruth.
27/80 Surely you do not make the dead to hear, and you do notmake the deaf to hear the call when they go back retreating.
27/81 Nor can you be a guide to the blind out of their error;you cannot make to bear (any one) except those who believein Our communications, so they submit.
27/82 And when the word shall come to pass against them, Weshall bring forth for them a creature from the earth thatshall i wound them, because people did not believe in Ourcommunications.
27/83 And on the day when We will gather from every nation aparty from among those who rejected Our communications,then they shall be formed into groups.
27/84 Until when they come, He will say: Did you reject Mycommunications while you had no comprehensive knowledge ofthem? Or what was it that you did?
27/85 And the word shall come to pass against them becausethey were unjust, so they shall not speak.
27/86 Do they not consider that We have made the night that.they may rest therein, and the day to give light? Mostsurely there are signs in this for a people who believe.
27/87 And on the day when the trumpet shall be blown, thenthose who are in the heavens and those who are in the earthshall be terrified except such as Allah please, and allshall come to him abased.
27/88 And you see the mountains, you think them to be solid,and they shall pass away as the passing away of thecloud-- the handiwork of Allah Who has made every thingthoroughly; surely He is Aware of what you do.
27/89 Whoever brings good, he shall have better than it; andthey shall be secure from terror on the day.
27/90 And whoever brings evil, these shall be thrown down ontheir faces into the fire; shall you be rewarded (for) aughtexcept what you did?
27/91 I am commanded only that I should serve the Lord of thiscity, Who has made it sacred, and His are all things; and Iam commanded that I should be of these who submit;
27/92 And that I should recite the Quran. Therefore whoevergoes aright, he goes aright for his own soul, and whoevergoes ' astray, then say: I am only one of the warners.
27/93 And say: Praise be to Allah, He will show you His signsso that you shall recognize them; nor is your Lord heedlessof what you do.
