4/1 O people! be careful of (your duty to) your Lord, Who createdyou from a single being and created its mate of the same (kind) andspread from these two, many men and women; and be careful of(your duty to) Allah, by Whom you demand one of another (yourrights), and (to) the ties of relationship; surely Allah ever watchesover you.
4/2 And give to the orphans their property, and do not substituteworthless (things) for (their) good (ones), and do not devourtheir property (as an addition) to your own property; this issurely a great crime.
4/3 And if you fear that you cannot act equitably towardsorphans, then marry such women as seem good to you, two andthree and four; but if you fear that you will not do justice(between them), then (marry) only one or what your right handspossess; this is more proper, that you may not deviate from theright course.
4/4 And give women their dowries as a free gift, but if they ofthemselves be pleased to give up to you a portion of it, then eat itwith enjoyment and with wholesome result.
4/5 And do not give away your property which Allah has madefor you a (means of) support to the weak of understanding, andmaintain them out of (the profits of) it, and clothe them andspeak to them words of honest advice.
4/6 And test the orphans until they attain puberty; then if youfind in them maturity of intellect, make over to them theirproperty, and do not consume it extravagantly and hastily, lestthey attain to full age; and whoever is rich, let him abstainaltogether, and whoever is poor, let him eat reasonably; thenwhen you make over to them their property, call witnesses intheir presence; and Allah is enough as a Reckoner.
4/7 Men shall have a portion of what the parents and the nearrelatives leave, and women shall have a portion of what theparents and the near relatives leave, whether there is little ormuch of it; a stated portion.
4/8 And when there are present at the division the relatives andthe orphans and the needy, give them (something) out of it andspeak to them kind words.
4/9 And let those fear who, should they leave behind themweakly offspring, would fear on their account, so let them becareful of (their duty to) Allah, and let them speak right words.
4/10 (As for) those who swallow the property of the orphansunjustly, surely they only swallow fire into their bellies and theyshall enter burning fire.
4/11 Allah enjoins you concerning your children: The maleshall have the equal of the portion of two females; then if theyare more than two females, they shall have two-thirds of whatthe deceased has left, and if there is one, she shall have the half;and as for his parents, each of them shall have the sixth of whathe has left if he has a child, but if he has no child and (only) histwo parents inherit him, then his mother shall have the third; butif he has brothers, then his mother shall have the sixth after (thepayment of) a bequest he may have bequeathed or a debt; yourparents and your children, you know not which of them is thenearer to you in usefulness; this is an ordinance from Allah:Surely Allah is Knowing, Wise.
4/12 And you shall have half of what your wives leave if theyhave no child, but if they have a child, then you shall have afourth of what they leave after (payment of) any bequest theymay have bequeathed or a debt; and they shall have the fourth ofwhat you leave if you have no child, but if you have a child thenthey shall have the eighth of what you leave after (payment of) abequest you may have bequeathed or a debt; and if a man or awoman leaves property to be inherited by neither parents noroffspring, and he (or she) has a brother or a sister, then each ofthem two shall have the sixth, but if they are more than that,they shall be sharers in the third after (payment of) any bequestthat may have been bequeathed or a debt that does not harm(others); this is an ordinance from Allah: and Allah is Knowing,Forbearing.
4/13 These are Allah's limits, and whoever obeys Allah and HisMessenger, He will cause him to enter gardens beneath which riversflow, to abide in them; and this is the great achievement.
4/14 And whoever disobeys Allah and His Messenger and goesbeyond His limits, He will cause him to enter fire to abide in it,and he shall have an abasing chastisement.
4/15 And as for those who are guilty of an indecency fromamong your women, call to witnesses against them four (witnesses)from among you; then if they bear witness confine themto the houses until death takes them away or Allah opens someway for them.
4/16 And as for the two who are guilty of indecency fromamong you, give them both a punishment; then if they repentand amend, turn aside from them; surely Allah is Oft-returning(to mercy), the Merciful.
4/17 Repentance with Allah is only for those who do evil inignorance, then turn (to Allah) soon, so these it is to whom Allahturns (mercifully), and Allah is ever Knowing, Wise.
4/18 And repentance is not for those who go on doing evildeeds, until when death comes to one of them, he says: Surelynow I repent; nor (for) those who die while they are unbelievers.These are they for whom We have prepared a painful chastisement.
4/19 O you who believe! it is not lawful for you that you shouldtake women as heritage against (their) will, and do not straitenthem m order that you may take part of what you have giventhem, unless they are guilty of manifest indecency, and treatthem kindly; then if you hate them, it may be that you dislike athing while Allah has placed abundant good in it.
4/20 And if you wish to have (one) wife in place of another andyou have given one of them a heap of gold, then take not from itanything; would you take it by slandering (her) and (doing her)manifest wrong?
4/21 And how can you take it when one of you has alreadygone in to the other and they have made with you a firmcovenant?
4/22 And marry not woman whom your fathers married, exceptwhat has already passed; this surely is indecent and hateful, andit is an evil way.
4/23 Forbidden to you are your mothers and your daughtersand your sisters and your paternal aunts and your maternalaunts and brothers' daughters and sisters' daughters and yourmothers that have suckled you and your foster-sisters and mothersof your wives and your step-daughters who are in your guardianship,(born) of your wives to whom you have gone in, but if youhave not gone in to them, there is no blame on you (in marryingthem), and the wives of your sons who are of your own loinsand that you should have two sisters together, except what hasalready passed; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/24 And all married women except those whom your righthands possess (this is) Allah's ordinance to you, and lawful foryou are (all women) besides those, provided that you seek (them)with your property, taking (them) in marriage not committingfornication. Then as to those whom you profit by, give themtheir dowries as appointed; and there is no blame on you aboutwhat you mutually agree after what is appointed; surely Allah isKnowing, Wise.
4/25 And whoever among you has not within his power amplenessof means to marry free believing women, then (he maymarry) of those whom your right hands possess from amongyour believing maidens; and Allah knows best your faith: youare (sprung) the one from the other; so marry them with thepermission of their masters, and give them their dowries justly,they being chaste, not fornicating, nor receiving paramours; andwhen they are taken in marriage, then if they are guilty of indecency,they shall suffer half the punishment which is (inflicted)upon free women. This is for him among you who fears fallinginto evil; and that you abstain is better for you, and Allah isForgiving, Merciful.
4/26 Allah desires to explain to you, and to guide you into theways of those before you, and to turn to you (mercifully), andAllah is Knowing, Wise.
4/27 And Allah desires that He should turn to you (mercifully),and those who follow (their) lusts desire that you should deviate(with) a great deviation.
4/28 Allah desires that He should make light your burdens,and man is created weak.
4/29 O you who believe! do not devour your property amongyourselves falsely, except that it be trading by your mutualconsent; and do not kill your people; surely Allah is Merciful toyou.
4/30 And whoever does this aggressively and unjustly, We willsoon cast him into fire; and this is easy to Allah.
4/31 If you shun the great sins which you are forbidden, Wewill do away with your small sins and cause you to enter anhonorable place of entering.
4/32 And do not covet that by which Allah has made some ofyou excel others; men shall have the benefit of what they earnand women shall have the benefit of what they earn; and askAllah of His grace; surely Allah knows all things.
4/33 And to every one We have appointed heirs of what parentsand near relatives leave; and as to those with whom your rightshands have ratified agreements, give them their portion; surelyAllah is a witness over all things.
4/34 Men are the maintainers of women because Allah hasmade some of them to excel others and because they spend outof their property; the good women are therefore obedient, guardingthe unseen as Allah has guarded; and (as to) those on whosepart you fear desertion, admonish them, and leave them alone inthe sleeping-places and beat them; then if they obey you, do notseek a way against them; surely Allah is High, Great.
4/35 And if you fear a breach between the two, then appointjudge from his people and a judge from her people; if they bothdesire agreement, Allah will effect harmony between them, surelyAllah is Knowing, Aware.
4/36 And serve Allah and do not associate any thing with Himand be good to the parents and to the near of kin and theorphans and the needy and the neighbor of (your) kin and thealien neighbor, and the companion in a journey and the wayfarerand those whom your right hands possess; surely Allah does notlove him who is proud, boastful;
4/37 Those who are niggardly and bid people to be niggardlyand hide what Allah has given them out of His grace; and Wehave prepared for the unbelievers a disgraceful chastisement.
4/38 And those who spend their property (in alms) to be seenof the people and do not believe in Allah nor in the last day; andas for him whose associate is the Shaitan, an evil associate ishe!
4/39 And what (harm) would it have done them if they hadbelieved in Allah and the last day and spent (benevolently) ofwhat Allah had given them? And Allah knows them.
4/40 Surely Allah does not do injustice to the weight of anatom, and if it is a good deed He multiplies it and gives fromHimself a great reward.
4/41 How will it be, then, when We bring from every people awitness and bring you as a witness against these?
4/42 On that day will those who disbelieve and disobey theMessenger desire that the earth were levelled with them, and theyshall not hide any word from Allah.
4/43 O you who believe! do not go near prayer when you areIntoxicated until you know (well) what you say, nor when you areunder an obligation to perform a bath-- unless (you are) travellingon the road-- until you have washed yourselves; and if youare sick, or on a journey, or one of you come from the privy or youhave touched the women, and you cannot find water, betakeyourselves to pure earth, then wipe your faces and your hands;surely Allah is Pardoning, Forgiving.
4/44 Have you not considered those to whom a portion of theBook has been given? They buy error and desire that you shouldgo astray from the way.
4/45 And Allah best knows your enemies; and Allah suffices asa Guardian, and Allah suffices as a Helper.
4/46 Of those who are Jews (there are those who) alter wordsfrom their places and say: We have heard and we disobey and:Hear, may you not be made to hear! and: Raina, distorting (theword) with their tongues and taunting about religion; and if theyhad said (instead): We have heard and we obey, and hearken,and unzurna it would have been better for them and moreupright; but Allah has cursed them on account of their unbelief,so they do not believe but a little.
4/47 O you who have been given the Book! believe that whichWe have revealed, verifying what you have, before We alter facesthen turn them on their backs, or curse them as We cursed theviolaters of the Sabbath, and the command of Allah shall beexecuted.
4/48 Surely Allah does not forgive that anything should beassociated with Him, and forgives what is besides that to whomsoeverHe pleases; and whoever associates anything with Allah,he devises indeed a great sin.
4/49 Have you not considered those who attribute purity tothemselves? Nay, Allah purifies whom He pleases; and they shallnot be wronged the husk of a date stone.
4/50 See how they forge the lie against Allah, and this issufficient as a manifest sin.
4/51 Have you not seen those to whom a portion of the Bookhas been given? They believe in idols and false deities and say ofthose who disbelieve: These are better guided in the path thanthose who believe.
4/52 Those are they whom Allah has cursed, and whomeverAllah curses you shall not find any helper for him.
4/53 Or have they a share in the kingdom? But then they wouldnot give to people even the speck in the date stone.
4/54 Or do they envy the people for what Allah has given themof His grace? But indeed We have given to Ibrahim's children theBook and the wisdom, and We have given them a grand kingdom.
4/55 So of them is he who believes in him, and of them is hewho turns away from him, and hell is sufficient to burn.
4/56 (As for) those who disbelieve in Our communications, Weshall make them enter fire; so oft as their skins are thoroughlyburned, We will change them for other skins, that they may tastethe chastisement; surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
4/57 And (as for) those who believe and do good deeds, Wewill make them enter gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abidein them for ever; they shall have therein pure mates, and Weshall make them enter a dense shade.
4/58 Surely Allah commands you to make over trusts to theirowners and that when you judge between people you judge withjustice; surely Allah admonishes you with what is excellent;surely Allah is Seeing, Hearing.
4/59 O you who believe! obey Allah and obey the Messenger andthose in authority from among you; then if you quarrel aboutanything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger, if you believe inAllah and the last day; this is better and very good in the end.
4/60 Have you not seen those who assert that they believe inwhat has been revealed to you and what was revealed beforeyou? They desire to summon one another to the judgment of theShaitan, though they were commanded to deny him, and theShaitan desires to lead them astray into a remote error.
4/61 And when it is said to them: Come to what Allah hasrevealed and to the Messenger, you will see the hypocrites turningaway from you with (utter) aversion.
4/62 But how will it be when misfortune befalls them on accountof what their hands have sent before? Then they will cometo you swearing by Allah: We did not desire (anything) but goodand concord.
4/63 These are they of whom Allah knows what is in theirhearts; therefore turn aside from them and admonish them, andspeak to them effectual words concerning themselves.
4/64 And We did not send any messenger but that he should beobeyed by Allah's permission; and had they, when they wereunjust to themselves, come to you and asked forgiveness ofAllah and the Messenger had (also) asked forgiveness for them,they would have found Allah Oft-returning (to mercy), Merciful.
4/65 But no! by your Lord! they do not believe (in reality) untilthey make you a judge of that which has become a matter ofdisagreement among them, and then do not find any straitness intheir hearts as to what you have decided and submit with entiresubmission.
4/66 And if We had prescribed for them: Lay down your livesor go forth from your homes, they would not have done it excepta few of them; and if they had done what they were admonished,it would have certainly been better for them and best in strengthening(them);
4/67 And then We would certainly have given them from Ourselvesa great reward.
4/68 And We would certainly have guided them in the rightpath.
4/69 And whoever obeys Allah and the Messenger, these are withthose upon whom Allah has bestowed favors from among theprophets and the truthful and the martyrs and the good, and agoodly company are they!
4/70 This is grace from Allah, and sufficient is Allah as the Knower.
4/71 O you who believe! take your precaution, then go forth indetachments or go forth in a body.
4/72 And surely among you is he who would certainly hangback! If then a misfortune befalls you he says: Surely Allahconferred a benefit on me that I was not present with them.
4/73 And if grace from Allah come to you, he would certainlycry out, as if there had not been any friendship between you andhim: Would that I had been with them, then I should haveattained a mighty good fortune.
4/74 Therefore let those fight in the way of Allah, who sell thisworld's life for the hereafter; and whoever fights in the way ofAllah, then be he slain or be he victorious, We shall grant him amighty reward.
4/75 And what reason have you that you should not fight in theway of Allah and of the weak among the men and the womenand the children, (of) those who say: Our Lord! cause us to goforth from this town, whose people are oppressors, and give usfrom Thee a guardian and give us from Thee a helper.
4/76 Those who believe fight in the way of Allah, and thosewho disbelieve fight in the way of the Shaitan. Fight thereforeagainst the friends of the Shaitan; surely the strategy of theShaitan is weak.
4/77 Have you not seen those to whom it was said: Withholdyour hands, and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate; but whenfighting is prescribed for them, lo! a party of them fear men asthey ought to have feared Allah, or (even) with a greater fear,and say: Our Lord! why hast Thou ordained fighting for us?Wherefore didst Thou not grant us a delay to a near end? Say:The provision of this world is short, and the hereafter is betterfor him who guards (against evil); and you shall not be wrongedthe husk of a date stone.
4/78 Wherever you are, death will overtake you, though youare in lofty towers, and if a benefit comes to them, they say: Thisis from Allah; and if a misfortune befalls them, they say: This isfrom you. Say: All is from Allah, but what is the matter withthese people that they do not make approach to understandingwhat is told (them)?
4/79 Whatever benefit comes to you (O man!), it is from Allah,and whatever misfortune befalls you, it is from yourself, and Wehave sent you (O Prophet!), to mankind as a messenger; and Allahis sufficient as a witness.
4/80 Whoever obeys the Messenger, he indeed obeys Allah, andwhoever turns back, so We have not sent you as a keeper overthem.
4/81 And they say: Obedience. But when they go out from yourpresence, a party of them decide by night upon doing otherwisethan what you say; and Allah writes down what they decide bynight, therefore turn aside from them and trust in Allah, andAllah is sufficient as a protector.
4/82 Do they not then meditate on the Quran? And if it werefrom any other than Allah, they would have found in it many adiscrepancy.
4/83 And when there comes to them news of security or fearthey spread it abroad; and if they had referred it to the Messengerand to those in authority among them, those among them whocan search out the knowledge of it would have known it, andwere it not for the grace of Allah upon you and His mercy, youwould have certainly followed the Shaitan save a few
4/84 Fight then in Allah's way; this is not imposed on youexcept In relation to yourself, and rouse the believers to ardormaybe Allah will restrain the fighting of those who disbelieveand Allah is strongest in prowess and strongest to give anexemplary punishment.
4/85 Whoever joins himself (to another) in a good cause shallhave a share of it, and whoever joins himself (to another) in anevil cause shall have the responsibility of it, and Allahcontrolsall things.
4/86 And when you are greeted with a greeting, greet with abetter (greeting) than it or return it; surely Allah takes accountof all things.
4/87 Allah, there is no god but He-- He will most certainlygather you together on the resurrection day, there is no doubt init; and who is more true in word than Allah?
4/88 What is the matter with you, then, that you have becometwo parties about the hypocrites, while Allah has made themreturn (to unbelief) for what they have earned? Do you wish toguide him whom Allah has caused to err? And whomsoeverAllah causes to err, you shall by no means find a way for him.
4/89 They desire that you should disbelieve as they have disbelieved,so that you might be (all) alike; therefore take not fromamong them friends until they fly (their homes) in Allah's way;but if they turn back, then seize them and kill them wherever youfind them, and take not from among them a friend or a helper.
4/90 Except those who reach a people between whom and youthere is an alliance, or who come to you, their hearts shrinkingfrom fighting you or fighting their own people; and if Allah hadpleased, He would have given them power over you, so that theyshould have certainly fought you; therefore if they withdrawfrom you and do not fight you and offer you peace, then Allahhas not given you a way against them.
4/91 You will find others who desire that they should be safefrom you and secure from their own people; as often as they aresent back to the mischief they get thrown into it headlong;therefore if they do not withdraw from you, and (do not) offeryou peace and restrain their hands, then seize them and kill themwherever you find them; and against these We have given you aclear authority.
4/92 And it does not behoove a believer to kill a believer exceptby mistake, and whoever kills a believer by mistake, he shouldfree a believing slave, and blood-money should be paid to hispeople unless they remit it as alms; but if he be from a tribehostile to you and he is a believer, the freeing of a believing slave(suffices), and if he is from a tribe between whom and you thereis a convenant, the blood-money should be paid to his peoplealong with the freeing of a believing slave; but he who cannotfind (a slave) should fast for two months successively: a penancefrom Allah, and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
4/93 And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his punishmentis hell; he shall abide in it, and Allah will send His wrath on himand curse him and prepare for him a painful chastisement.
4/94 O you who believe! when you go to war in Allah's way,make investigation, and do not say to any one who offers youpeace: You are not a believer. Do you seek goods of this world'slife! But with Allah there are abundant gains; you too were suchbefore, then Allah conferred a benefit on you; therefore makeinvestigation; surely Allah is aware of what you do.
4/95 The holders back from among the believers, not havingany injury, and those who strive hard in Allah's way with theirproperty and their persons are not equal; Allah has made thestrivers with their property and their persons to excel the holdersback a (high) degree, and to each (class) Allah has promisedgood; and Allah shall grant to the strivers above the holdersback a mighty reward:
4/96 (High) degrees from Him and protection and mercy, andAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/97 Surely (as for) those whom the angels cause to die whilethey are unjust to their souls, they shall say: In what state wereyou? They shall say: We were weak in the earth. They shall say:Was not Allah's earth spacious, so that you should have migratedtherein? So these it is whose abode is hell, and it is an evilresort
4/98 Except the weak from among the men and the childrenwho have not in their power the means nor can they find a way(to escape);
4/99 So these, it may be, Allah will pardon them, and Allah isPardoning, Forgiving.
4/100 And whoever flies in Allah's way, he will find in the earthmany a place of refuge and abundant resources, and whoevergoes forth from his house flying to Allah and His Messenger, andthen death overtakes him, his reward is indeed with Allah andAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/101 And when you journey in the earth, there is no blame onyou if you shorten the prayer, if you fear that those who disbelievewill cause you distress, surely the unbelievers are youropen enemy.
4/102 And when you are among them and keep up the prayerfor them, let a party of them stand up with you, and let themtake their arms; then when they have prostrated themselves letthem go to your rear, and let another party who have not prayedcome forward and pray with you, and let them take their precautionsand their arms; (for) those who disbelieve desire thatyou may be careless of your arms and your luggage, so that theymay then turn upon you with a sudden united attack, and thereis no blame on you, if you are annoyed with rain or if you aresick, that you lay down your arms, and take your precautions;surely Allah has prepared a disgraceful chastisement for theunbelievers.
4/103 Then when you have finished the prayer, remember Allahstanding and sitting and reclining; but when you are secure(from danger) keep up prayer; surely prayer is a timed ordinancefor the believers.
4/104 And be not weak hearted in pursuit of the enemy; if yousuffer pain, then surely they (too) suffer pain as you suffer pain,and you hope from Allah what they do not hope; and Allah isKnowing, Wise.
4/105 Surely We have revealed the Book to you with the truththat you may judge between people by means of that whichAllah has taught you; and be not an advocate on behalf of thetreacherous.
4/106 And ask forgiveness of Allah; surely Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
4/107 And do not plead on behalf of those who act unfaithfullyto their souls; surely Allah does not love him who is treacherous,sinful;
4/108 They hide themselves from men and do not hide themselvesfrom Allah, and He is with them when they meditate bynight words which please Him not, and Allah encompasses whatthey do.
4/109 Behold! you are they who (may) plead for them in thisworld's life, but who will plead for them with Allah on theresurrection day, or who shall be their protector?
4/110 And whoever does evil or acts unjustly to his soul, thenasks forgiveness of Allah, he shall find Allah Forgiving, Merciful.
4/111 And whoever commits a sin, he only commits it againsthis own soul; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
4/112 And whoever commits a fault or a sin, then accuses of itone innocent, he indeed takes upon himself the burden of acalumny and a manifest sin.
4/113 And were it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercya party of them had certainly designed to bring you to perditionand they do not bring (aught) to perdition but their own souls,and they shall not harm you in any way, and Allah has revealed toyou the Book and the wisdom, and He has taught you what youdid not know, and Allah's grace on you is very great.
4/114 There is no good in most of their secret counsels except (inhis) who enjoins charity or goodness or reconciliation betweenpeople; and whoever does this seeking Allah's pleasure, We willgive him a mighty reward.
4/115 And whoever acts hostilely to the Messenger after thatguidance has become manifest to him, and follows other than theway of the believers, We will turn him to that to which he has(himself) turned and make him enter hell; and it is anevil resort.
4/116 Surely Allah does not forgive that anything should beassociated with Him, and He forgives what is besides this towhom He pleases; and whoever associates anything with Allah, heindeed strays off into a remote error.
4/117 They do not call besides Him on anything but idols, andthey do not call on anything but a rebellious Shaitan.
4/118 Allah has cursed him; and he said: Most certainly I willtake of Thy servants an appointed portion:
4/119 And most certainly I will lead them astray and excite inthem vain desires, and bid them so that they shall slit the ears ofthe cattle, and most certainly I will bid them so that they shall alterAllah's creation; and whoever takes the Shaitan for a guardianrather than Allah he indeed shall suffer a manifest loss.
4/120 He gives them promises and excites vain desires in them;and the Shaitan does not promise them but to deceive.
4/121 These are they whose abode is hell, and they shall not findany refuge from it.
4/122 And (as for) those who believe and do good, We will makethem enter into gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abidetherein for ever; (it is) a promise of Allah, true (indeed), and whois truer of word than Allah?
4/123 (This) shall not be in accordance with your vain desiresnor in accordance with the vain desires of the followers of theBook; whoever does evil, he shall be requited with it, and besidesAllah he will find for himself neither a guardian nor a helper.
4/124 And whoever does good deeds whether male or femaleand he (or she) is a believer-- these shall enter the garden, and theyshall not be dealt with a jot unjustly.
4/125 And who has a better religion than he who submitshimself entirely to Allah? And he is the doer of good (to others)and follows the faith of Ibrahim, the upright one, and Allah tookIbrahim as a friend.
4/126 And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in theearth is Allah's; and Allah encompasses all things.
4/127 And they ask you a decision about women. Say: Allahmakes known to you His decision concerning them, and thatwhich is recited to you in the Book concerning female orphanswhom you do not give what is appointed for them while you desireto marry them, and concerning the weak among children, andthat you should deal towards orphans with equity; and whatevergood you do, Allah surely knows it.
4/128 And if a woman fears ill usage or desertion on the part ofher husband, there is no blame on them, if they effect a reconciliationbetween them, and reconciliation is better, and avarice hasbeen made to be present in the (people's) minds; and if you dogood (to others) and guard (against evil), then surely Allah isaware of what you do.
4/129 And you have it not in your power to do justice betweenwives, even though you may wish (it), but be not disinclined (fromone) with total disinclination, so that you leave her as it were insuspense; and if you effect a reconciliation and guard (againstevil), then surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/130 And if they separate, Allah will render them both freefrom want out of His ampleness, and Allah is Ample-giving, Wise.
4/131 And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in theearth is Allah's and certainly We enjoined those who were giventhe Book before you and (We enjoin) you too that you should becareful of (your duty to) Allah; and if you disbelieve, then surelywhatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth is Allah'sand Allah is Self-sufficient, Praise-worthy.
4/132 And whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in theearth is Allah's, and Allah is sufficient as a Protector.
4/133 If He please, He can make you pass away, O people! andbring others; and Allah has the power to do this.
4/134 Whoever desires the reward of this world, then with Allahis the reward of this world and the hereafter; and Allah is Hearing,Seeing.
4/135 O you who believe! be maintainers of justice, bearers ofwitness of Allah's sake, though it may be against your own selvesor (your) parents or near relatives; if he be rich or poor, Allah isnearer to them both in compassion; therefore do not follow (your)low desires, lest you deviate; and if you swerve or turn aside, thensurely Allah is aware of what you do.
4/136 O you who believe! believe in Allah and His Messenger andthe Book which He has revealed to His Messenger and the Bookwhich He revealed before; and whoever disbelieves in Allah andHis angels and His messengers and the last day, he indeed strays offinto a remote error.
4/137 Surely (as for) those who believe then disbelieve, againbelieve and again disbelieve, then increase in disbelief, Allah willnot forgive them nor guide them in the (right) path.
4/138 Announce to the hypocrites that they shall have a painfulchastisement:
4/139 Those who take the unbelievers for guardians rather thanbelievers. Do they seek honor from them? Then surely all honor isfor Allah.
4/140 And indeed He has revealed to you in the Book that whenyou hear Allah's communications disbelieved in and mocked atdo not sit with them until they enter into some other discourse;surely then you would be like them; surely Allah will gathertogether the hypocrites and the unbelievers all in hell.
4/141 Those who wait for (some misfortune to befall) you thenIf you have a victory from Allah they say: Were we not with you?And i. there IS a chance for the unbelievers, they say: Did we notacquire the mastery over you and defend you from the believers?So Allah shall Judge between you on the day of resurrection, andAllah will by no means give the unbelievers a way against thebelievers.
4/142 Surely the hypocrites strive to deceive Allah, and He shallrequite their deceit to them, and when they stand up to prayerthey stand up sluggishly; they do it only to be seen of men and donot remember Allah save a little.
4/143 Wavering between that (and this), (belonging) neither tothese nor to those; and whomsoever Allah causes to err, you shallnot find a way for him.
4/144 O you who believe! do not take the unbelievers for friendsrather than the believers; do you desire that you should give toAllah a manifest proof against yourselves?
4/145 Surely the hypocrites are in the lowest stage of the fireand you shall not find a helper for them.
4/146 Except those who repent and amend and hold fast toAllah and are sincere in their religion to Allah, these are with thebelievers, and Allah will grant the believers a mighty reward.
4/147 Why should Allah chastise you if you are grateful andbelieve? And Allah is the Multiplier of rewards, Knowing
4/148 Allah does not love the public utterance of hurtful speechunless (it be) by one to whom injustice has been done; and Allah isHearing, Knowing.
4/149 If you do good openly or do it in secret or pardon an evilthen surely Allah is Pardoning, Powerful.
4/150 Surely those who disbelieve in Allah and His messengers and(those who) desire to make a distinction between Allah and Hismessengers and say: We believe in some and disbelieve in others, anddesire to take a course between (this and) that.
4/151 These it is that are truly unbelievers, and We have preparedfor the unbelievers a disgraceful chastisement.
4/152 And those who believe in Allah and His messengers and donot make a distinction between any of them-- Allah will grantthem their rewards; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/153 The followers of the Book ask you to bring down to thema book from heaven; so indeed they demanded of Musa a greaterthing than that, for they said: Show us Allah manifestly; so thelightning overtook them on account of their injustice. Then theytook the calf (for a god), after clear signs had come to them, butWe pardoned this; and We gave to Musa clear authority.
4/154 And We lifted the mountain (Sainai) over them at (theli taking of the covenant) and We said to them: Enter the doormaking obeisance; and We said to them: Do not exceed the limitsof the Sabbath, and We made with them a firm covenant.
4/155 Therefore, for their breaking their covenant and theirdisbelief in the communications of Allah and their killing theprophets wrongfully and their saying: Our hearts are covered;nay! Allah set a seal upon them owing to their unbelief, so theyshall not believe except a few.
4/156 And for their unbelief and for their having uttered againstMarium a grievous calumny.
4/157 And their saying: Surely we have killed the Messiah, Isason of Marium, the messenger of Allah; and they did not kill him nordid they crucify him, but it appeared to them so (like Isa) and mostsurely those who differ therein are only in a doubt about it; theyhave no knowledge respecting it, but only follow a conjecture, andthey killed him not for sure.
4/158 Nay! Allah took him up to Himself; and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
4/159 And there is not one of the followers of the Book but mostcertainly believes in this before his death, and on the day ofresurrection he (Isa) shall be a witness against them.
4/160 Wherefore for the iniquity of those who are Jews did Wedisallow to them the good things which had been made lawful forthem and for their hindering many (people) from Allah's way.
4/161 And their taking usury though indeed they were forbiddenit and their devouring the property of people falsely, andWe have prepared for the unbelievers from among them a painfulchastisement.
4/162 But the firm in knowledge among them and the believersbelieve in what has been revealed to. you and what was revealedbefore you, and those who keep up prayers and those who give thepoor-rate and the believers in Allah and the last day, these it iswhom We will give a mighty reward.
4/163 Surely We have revealed to you as We revealed to Nuh,and the prophets after him, and We revealed to Ibrahim andIsmail and Ishaq and Yaqoub and the tribes, and Isa and Ayuband Yunus and Haroun and Sulaiman and We gave to Dawood
4/164 And (We sent) messengers We have mentioned to you beforeand messengers we have not mentioned to you; and to Musa, Allahaddressed His Word, speaking (to him):
4/165 (We sent) messengers as the givers of good news and aswarners, so that people should not have a plea against Allah afterthe (coming of) messengers; and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
4/166 But Allah bears witness by what He has revealed to youthat He has revealed it with His knowledge, and the angels bearwitness (also); and Allah is sufficient as a witness.
4/167 Surely (as for) those who disbelieve and hinder (men)from Allah's way, they indeed have strayed off into a remote
4/168 Surely (as for) those who disbelieve and act unjustlyAllah will not forgive them nor guide them to a path
4/169 Except the path of hell, to abide in it for ever, and this iseasy to Allah.
4/170 O people! surely the Messenger has come to you with thetruth from your Lord, therefore believe, (it shall be) good for youand If you disbelieve, then surely whatever is in the heavens andthe earth is Allah's; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
4/171 O followers of the Book! do not exceed the limits in yourreligion, and do not speak (lies) against Allah, but (speak) thetruth; the Messiah, Isa son of Marium is only a messenger of Allahand His Word which He communicated to Marium and a spiritfrom Him; believe therefore in Allah and His messengers, and saynot, Three. Desist, it is better for you; Allah is only one Allah; farbe It from His glory that He should have a son, whatever is in theheavens and whatever is in the earth is His, and Allah is sufficientfor a Protector.
4/172 The Messiah does by no means disdain that he should be aservant of Allah, nor do the angels who are near to Him, andwhoever disdains His service and is proud, He will gather them alltogether to Himself.
4/173 Then as for those who believe and do good, He will paythem fully their rewards and give them more out of His grace; andas for those who disdain and are proud, He will chastise them witha painful chastisement. And they shall not find for themselvesbesides Allah a guardian or a helper
4/174 O people! surely there has come to you manifest prooffrom your Lord and We have sent to you clear light.
4/175 Then as for those who believe in Allah and hold fast byHim, He will cause them to enter into His mercy and grace andguide them to Himself on a right path.
4/176 They ask you for a decision of the law. Say: Allah givesyou a decision concerning the person who has neither parents noroffspring; if a man dies (and) he has no son and he has a sister, sheshall have half of what he leaves, and he shall be her heir she hasno son; but if there be two (sisters), they shall have two-thirds ofwhat he leaves; and if there are brethren, men and women, thenthe male shall have the like of the portion of two females; Allahmakes clear to you, lest you err; and Allah knows all things.
