61/1 Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earthdeclares the glory of Allah; and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
61/2 O you who believe! why do you say that which you do notdo?
61/3 It is most hateful to Allah that you should say thatwhich you do not do.
61/4 Surely Allah loves those who fight in His way in ranks asif they were a firm and compact wall.
61/5 And when Musa said to his people: O my people! why do yougive me trouble? And you know indeed that I am Allah'smessenger to you; but when they turned aside, Allah made theirhearts turn aside, and Allah does not guide thetransgressing people.
61/6 And when Isa son of Marium said: O children of Israel!surely I am the messenger of Allah to you, verifying thatwhich is before me of the Taurat and giving the good news ofan Messenger who will come after me, his name being Ahmad, butwhen he came to them with clear arguments they said: This isclear magic.
61/7 And who is more unjust than he who forges a lie againstAllah and he is invited to Islam, and Allah does not guidethe unjust people.
61/8 They desire to put out the light of Allah with theirmouths but Allah will perfect His light, though theunbelievers may be averse.
61/9 He it is Who sent His Messenger with the guidance and thetrue religion, that He may make it overcome the religions,all of them, though the polytheists may be averse.
61/10 O you who believe! shall I lead you to a merchandisewhich may deliver you from a painful chastisement?
61/11 You shall believe in Allah and His Messenger, andstruggle hard in Allah's way with your property and yourlives; that is better for you, did you but know!
61/12 He will forgive you your faults and cause you to enterinto gardens, beneath which rivers flow, and goodlydwellings in gardens of perpetuity; that is the mightyachievement;
61/13 And yet another (blessing) that you love: help fromAllah and a victory near at hand; and give good news to thebelievers.
61/14 O you who believe! be helpers (in the cause) of Allah,as~ Isa son of Marium said to (his) disciples: Who are myhelpers in the cause of Allah? The disciples said: We arehelpers (in the cause) of Allah. So a party of the childrenof Israel believed and another party disbelieved; then Weaided those who believed against their enemy, and theybecame uppermost.
