34/1 (All) praise is due to Allah, Whose is what is in theheavens and what is in the earth, and to Him is due (all)praise in the hereafter; and He is the Wise, the Aware.
34/2 He knows that which goes down into the earth and thatwhich comes out of it, and that which comes down from theheaven and that which goes up to it; and He is the Merciful,the Forgiving.
34/3 And those who disbelieve say: The hour shall not comeupon us. Say: Yea! by my Lord, the Knower of the unseen, itshall certainly come upon you; not the weight of an atombecomes absent from Him, in the heavens or in the earth, andneither less than that nor greater, but (all) is in a clearbook
34/4 That He may reward those who believe and do good; theseit is for whom is forgiveness and an honorable sustenance.
34/5 And (as for) those who strive hard in opposing Ourcommunications, these it is for whom is a painfulchastisement of an evil kind.
34/6 And those to whom the knowledge has been given see thatwhich has been revealed to you from your Lord, that is thetruth, and it guides into the path of the Mighty, thePraised.
34/7 And those who disbelieve say: Shall we point out to you aman who informs you that when you are scattered the utmostscattering you shall then be most surely (raised) in (to) anew creation?
34/8 He has forged a lie against Allah or there is madness inhim. Nay! those who do not believe in the hereafter are intorment and in great error.
34/9 Do they not then consider what is before them and what isbehind them of the heaven and the earth? If We please Wewill make them disappear in the land or bring down upon thema portion from the heaven; most surely there is a sign inthis for every servant turning (to Allah).
34/10 And certainly We gave to Dawood excellence from Us: Omountains! sing praises with him, and the birds; and We madethe iron pliant to him,
34/11 Saying: Make ample (coats of mail), and assign a time tothe making of coats of mail and do good; surely I am Seeingwhat you do.
34/12 And (We made) the wind (subservient) to Sulaiman, whichmade a month's journey in the morning and a month's journeym the evening, and We made a fountain of molten copper toflow out for him, and of the jinn there were those whoworked before him by the command of his Lord; and whoeverturned aside from Our command from among them, We made himtaste of the punishment of burning.
34/13 They made for him what he pleased of fortresses andimages, and bowls (large) as watering-troughs andcooking-pots that will not move from their place; givethanks, O family of Dawood! and very few of My servants aregrateful.
34/14 But when We decreed death for him, naught showed themhis death but a creature of the earth that ate away hisstaff; and when it fell down, the jinn came to know plainlythat if they had known the unseen, they would not havetarried in abasing torment.
34/15 Certainly there was a sign for Saba in their abode; twogardens on the right and the left; eat of the sustenance ofyour Lord and give thanks to Him: a good land and aForgiving Lord!
34/16 But they turned aside, so We sent upon them a torrent ofwhich the rush could not be withstood, and in place of theirtwo gardens We gave to them two gardens yielding bitterfruit and (growing) tamarisk and a few lote-trees.
34/17 This We requited them with because they disbelieved; andWe do not punish any but the ungrateful.
34/18 And We made between them and the towns which We hadblessed (other) towns to be easily seen, and We apportionedthe journey therein: Travel through them nights and days,secure.
34/19 And they said: O our Lord! make spaces to be longerbetween our journeys; and they were unjust to themselves soWe made them stories and scattered them with an utterscattering; most surely there are signs in this for everypatient, grateful one
34/20 And certainly the Shaitan found true his conjectureconcerning them, so they follow him, except a party of thebelievers.
34/21 And he has no authority over them, but that We maydistinguish him who believes in the hereafter from him whois in doubt concerning it; and your Lord is the Preserver ofall things
34/22 Say: Call upon those whom you assert besides Allah; theydo not control the weight of an atom in the heavens or inthe earth nor have they any partnership in either, nor hasHe among them any one to back (Him) up.
34/23 And intercession will not avail aught with Him save ofhim whom He permits. Until when fear shall be removed fromtheir hearts, They shall say: What is it that your Lordsaid? They shall say: The truth. And He is the Most High,the Great.
34/24 Say: Who gives you the sustenance from the heavens andthe earth? Say: Allah. And most surely we or you are on aright way or in manifest error
34/25 Say: You will not be questioned as to what we are guiltyof, nor shall we be questioned as to what you do.
34/26 Say: Our Lord will gather us together, then will Hejudge between us with the truth; and He is the greatestJudge, the All-knowing.
34/27 Say: Show me those whom you have joined with Him asassociates; by no means (can you do it). Nay! He is Allah,the Mighty, the Wise.
34/28 And We have not sent you but to all the men as a bearerof good news and as a warner, but most men do not know.
34/29 And they say: When will this promise be (fulfilled) ifyou are truthful?
34/30 Say: You have the appointment of a day from which youcannot hold back any while, nor can you bring it on.
34/31 And those who disbelieve say: By no means will webelieve in this Quran, nor in that which is before it; andcould you see when the unjust shall be made to stand beforetheir Lord, bandying words one with another! Those who werereckoned weak shall say to those who were proud: Had it notbeen for you we would certainly have been believers.
34/32 Those who were proud shall say to those who were deemedweak: Did we turn you away from the guidance after it hadcome to you? Nay, you (yourselves) were guilty
34/33 And those who were deemed weak shall say to those who were proud. Nay,(it was) planning by night and day when you told us to disbelieve in Allahand to set up likes with Him. And they shall conceal regret when they shallsee the punishment; and We will put shackles on the necks of those whodisbelieved; they shall not be requited but what they did.
34/34 And We never sent a warner to a town but those who ledlives in ease in it said: We are surely disbelievers in whatyou are sent with.
34/35 And they say: We have more wealth and children, and weshall not be punished.
34/36 Say: Surely my Lord amplifies the means of subsistencefor whom He pleases and straitens (for whom He pleases), butmost men do not know.
34/37 And not your wealth nor your children, are the thingswhich bring you near Us in station, but whoever believes anddoes good, these it is for whom is a double reward for whatthey do, and they shall be secure in the highest places.
34/38 And (as for) those who strive in opposing Ourcommunications, they shall be caused to be brought to thechastisement.
34/39 Say: Surely my Lord amplifies the means of subsistencefor whom He pleases of His servants and straitens (them) forwhom (He pleases), and whatever thing you spend, He exceeds it inreward, and He is the best of Sustainers.
34/40 And on the day when He will gather them all together,then will He say to the angels: Did these worship you?
34/41 They shall say: Glory be to Thee! Thou art our Guardian,not they; nay! they worshipped the jinn; most of them werebelievers in them.
34/42 So on that day one of you shall not control profit orharm for another, and We will say to those who were unjust:Taste the chastisement of the fire which you called a lie.
34/43 And when Our clear communications are recited to them,they say: This is naught but a man who desires to turn youaway from that which your fathers worshipped. And they say:This is naught but a lie that is forged. And those whodisbelieve say of the truth when it comes to them: This isonly clear enchantment.
34/44 And We have not given them any books which they read,nor did We send to them before you a warner.
34/45 And those before them rejected (the truth), and thesehave not yet attained a tenth of what We gave them, but theygave the lie to My messengers, then how was the manifestationof My disapproval?
34/46 Say: I exhort you only to one thing, that rise up forAllah's sake in twos and singly, then ponder: there is nomadness in your fellow-citizen; he is only a warner to youbefore a severe chastisement.
34/47 Say: Whatever reward I have asked of you, that is onlyfor yourselves; my reward is only with Allah, and He is awitness of all things.
34/48 Say: Surely my Lord utters the truth, the great Knowerof the unseen.
34/49 Say: The truth has come, and the falsehood shall vanishand shall not come back.
34/50 Say: If I err, I err only against my own soul, and if Ifollow a right direction, it ?s because of what my Lordreveals to me; surely He is Hearing, Nigh.
34/51 And could you see when they shall become terrified, but(then) there shall be no escape and they shall be seizedupon from a near place
34/52 And they shall say: We believe in it. And how shall theattaining (of faith) be possible to them from a distantplace?
34/53 And they disbelieved in it before, and they utterconjectures with regard to the unseen from a distant place.
34/54 And a barrier shall be placed between them and thatwhich they desire, as was done with the likes of thembefore: surely they are in a disquieting doubt.
