66/1 O Prophet! why do you forbid (yourself) that which Allahhas made lawful for you; you seek to please your wives; andAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
66/2 Allah indeed has sanctioned for you the expiation of youroaths and Allah is your Protector, and He is the Knowing theWise.
66/3 And when the prophet secretly communicated a piece ofinformation to one of his wives-- but when she informed(others) of it, and Allah made him to know it, he made knownpart of it and avoided part; so when he informed her of it,she said: Who informed you of this? He said: The Knowing,the one Aware, informed me.
66/4 If you both turn to Allah, then indeed your hearts arealready inclined (to this); and if you back up each otheragainst him, then surely Allah it is Who is his Guardian,and Jibreel and -the believers that do good, and the angelsafter that are the aiders.
66/5 Maybe, his Lord, if he divorce you, will give him in yourplace wives better than you, submissive, faithful, obedient,penitent, adorers, fasters, widows and virgins.
66/6 O you who believe! save yourselves and your families froma fire whose fuel is men and stones; over it are angelsstern and strong, they do not disobey Allah in what Hecommands them, and do as they are commanded.
66/7 O you who disbelieve! do not urge excuses today; youshall be rewarded only according to what you did.
66/8 O you who believe! turn to Allah a sincere turning; maybeyour Lord will remove from you your evil and cause you toenter gardens beneath which rivers flow, on the day on whichAllah will not abase the Prophet and those who believe withhim; their light shall run on before them and on their righthands; they shall say: Our Lord! make perfect for us ourlight, and grant us protection, surely Thou hast power overall things.
66/9 O Prophet! strive hard against the unbelievers and thehypocrites, and be hard against them; and their abode ishell; and evil is the resort.
66/10 Allah sets forth an example to those who disbelieve thewife of Nuh and the wife of Lut: they were both under two ofOur righteous servants, but they acted treacherously towardsthem so they availed them naught against Allah, and it wassaid: Enter both the fire with those who enter.
66/11 And Allah sets forth an example to those who believe thewife of Firon when she said: My Lord! build for me a housewith Thee in the garden and deliver me from Firon and hisdoing, and deliver me from the unjust people:
66/12 And Marium, the daughter of Imran, who guarded herchastity, so We breathed into her of Our inspiration and sheaccepted the truth of the words of her Lord and His books,and she was of, the obedient ones.
