9/1 (This is a declaration of) immunity by Allah and HisMessenger towards those of the idolaters with whom you made anagreement.
9/2 So go about in the land for four months and know that youcannot weaken Allah and that Allah will bring disgrace to theunbelievers.
9/3 And an announcement from Allah and His Messenger to thepeople on the day of the greater pilgrimage that Allah and HisMessenger are free from liability to the idolaters; therefore if yourepent, it will be better for you, and if you turn back, then knowthat you will not weaken Allah; and announce painful punishmentto those who disbelieve.
9/4 Except those of the idolaters with whom you made anagreement, then they have not failed you in anything and havenot backed up any one against you, so fulfill their agreement tothe end of their term; surely Allah loves those who are careful (oftheir duty).
9/5 So when the sacred months have passed away, then slay theidolaters wherever you find them, and take them captives andbesiege them and lie in wait for them in every ambush, then ifthey repent and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate, leave theirway free to them; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/6 And if one of the idolaters seek protection from you, granthim protection till he hears the word of Allah, then make himattain his place of safety; this is because they are a people who donot know.
9/7 How can there be an agreement for the idolaters with Allahand with His Messenger; except those with whom you made anagreement at the Sacred Mosque? So as long as they are true toyou, be true to them; surely Allah loves those who are careful (oftheir duty).
9/8 How (can it be)! while if they prevail against you, theywould not pay regard in your case to ties of relationship, northose of covenant; they please you with their mouths while theirhearts do not consent; and most of them are transgressors.
9/9 They have taken a small price for the communications ofAllah, so they turn away from His way; surely evil is it that theydo.
9/10 They do not pay regard to ties of relationship nor those ofcovenant in the case of a believer; and these are they who gobeyond the limits.
9/11 But if they repent and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate,they are your brethren in faith; and We make the communicationsclear for a people who know.
9/12 And if they break their oaths after their agreement and(openly) revile your religion, then fight the leaders of unbelief--surely their oaths are nothing-- so that they may desist.
9/13 What! will you not fight a people who broke their oathsand aimed at the expulsion of the Messenger, and they attackedyou first; do you fear them? But Allah is most deserving that youshould fear Him, if you are believers.
9/14 Fight them, Allah will punish them by your hands andbring them to disgrace, and assist you against them and heal thehearts of a believing people.
9/15 And remove the rage of their hearts; and Allah turns(mercifully) to whom He pleases, and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
9/16 What! do you think that you will be left alone while Allahhas not yet known those of you who have struggled hard andhave not taken any one as an adherent besides Allah and HisMessenger and the believers; and Allah is aware of what you do.
9/17 The idolaters have no right to visit the mosques of Allahwhile bearing witness to unbelief against themselves, these it iswhose doings are null, and in the fire shall they abide.
9/18 Only he shall visit the mosques of Allah who believes inAllah and the latter day, and keeps up prayer and pays the poor-rateand fears none but Allah; so (as for) these, it may be thatthey are of the followers of the right course.
9/19 What! do you make (one who undertakes) the giving ofdrink to the pilgrims and the guarding of the Sacred Mosque likehim who believes in Allah and the latter day and strives hard inAllah's way? They are not equal with Allah; and Allah does notguide the unjust people.
9/20 Those who believed and fled (their homes), and strovehard in Allah's way with their property and their souls, are muchhigher in rank with Allah; and those are they who are theachievers (of their objects).
9/21 Their Lord gives them good news of mercy from Himselfand (His) good pleasure and gardens, wherein lasting blessingsshall be theirs;
9/22 Abiding therein for ever; surely Allah has a Mighty rewardwith Him.
9/23 O you who believe! do not take your fathers and yourbrothers for guardians if they love unbelief more than belief; andwhoever of you takes them for a guardian, these it is that are theunjust.
9/24 Say: If your fathers and your sons and your brethren andyour mates and your kinsfolk and property which you haveacquired, and the slackness of trade which you fear and dwellingswhich you like, are dearer to you than Allah and His Messengerand striving in His way, then wait till Allah brings about Hiscommand: and Allah does not guide the transgressing people.
9/25 Certainly Allah helped you in many battlefields and onthe day of Hunain, when your great numbers made you vain, butthey availed you nothing and the earth became strait to younotwithstanding its spaciousness, then you turned back retreating.
9/26 Then Allah sent down His tranquillity upon His Messengerand upon the believers, and sent down hosts which you did notsee, and chastised those who disbelieved, and that is the rewardof the unbelievers.
9/27 Then will Allah after this turn (mercifully) to whom Hepleases, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/28 O you who believe! the idolaters are nothing but unclean,so they shall not approach the Sacred Mosque after this year;and if you fear poverty then Allah will enrich you out of Hisgrace if He please; surely Allah is Knowing Wise.
9/29 Fight those who do not believe in Allah, nor in the latterday, nor do they prohibit what Allah and His Messenger haveprohibited, nor follow the religion of truth, out of those whohave been given the Book, until they pay the tax in acknowledgmentof superiority and they are in a state of subjection.
9/30 And the Jews say: Uzair is the son of Allah; and theChristians say: The Messiah is the son of Allah; these are thewords of their mouths; they imitate the saying of those whodisbelieved before; may Allah destroy them; how they are turnedaway!
9/31 They have taken their doctors of law and their monks forlords besides Allah, and (also) the Messiah son of Marium andthey were enjoined that they should serve one Allah only, there isno god but He; far from His glory be what they set up (withHim).
9/32 They desire to put out the light of Allah with their mouths,and Allah will not consent save to perfect His light, though theunbelievers are averse.
9/33 He it is Who sent His Messenger with guidance and thereligion of truth, that He might cause it to prevail over allreligions, though the polytheists may be averse.
9/34 O you who believe! most surely many of the doctors oflaw and the monks eat away the property of men falsely, andturn (them) from Allah's way; and (as for) those who hoard upgold and silver and do not spend it in Allah's way, announce tothem a painful chastisement,
9/35 On the day when it shall be heated in the fire of hell, thentheir foreheads and their sides and their backs shall be brandedwith it; this is what you hoarded up for yourselves, thereforetaste what you hoarded.
9/36 Surely the number of months with Allah is twelve monthsin Allah's ordinance since the day when He created the heavensand the earth, of these four being sacred; that is the rightreckoning; therefore be not unjust to yourselves regarding them,and fight the polytheists all together as they fight you all together;and know that Allah is with those who guard (against evil).
9/37 Postponing (of the sacred month) is only an addition inunbelief, wherewith those who disbelieve are led astray, violatingit one year and keeping it sacred another, that they may agree inthe number (of months) that Allah has made sacred, and thusviolate what Allah has made sacred; the evil of their doings ismade fairseeming to them; and Allah does not guide the unbelievingpeople.
9/38 O you who believe! What (excuse) have you that when it issaid to you: Go forth in Allah's way, you should incline heavilyto earth; are you contented with this world's life instead of thehereafter? But the provision of this world's life compared withthe hereafter is but little.
9/39 If you do not go forth, He will chastise you with a painfulchastisement and bring in your place a people other than you,and you will do Him no harm; and Allah has power over allthings.
9/40 If you will not aid him, Allah certainly aided him whenthose who disbelieved expelled him, he being the second of thetwo, when they were both in the cave, when he said to hiscompanion: Grieve not, surely Allah is with us. So Allah sentdown His tranquillity upon him and strengthened him with hostswhich you did not see, and made lowest the word of those whodisbelieved; and the word of Allah, that is the highest; and Allahis Mighty, Wise.
9/41 Go forth light and heavy, and strive hard in Allah's waywith your property and your persons; this is better for you, ifyou know.
9/42 Had it been a near advantage and a short journey, theywould certainly have followed you, but the tedious journey wastoo long for them; and they swear by Allah: If we had been able,we would certainly have gone forth with you; they cause theirown souls to perish, and Allah knows that they are most surely
9/43 Allah pardon you! Why did you give them leave untilthose who spoke the truth had become manifest to you and youhad known the liars?
9/44 They do not ask leave of you who believe in Allah and thelatter day (to stay away) from striving hard with their propertyand their persons, and Allah knows those who guard (againstevil).
9/45 They only ask leave of you who do not believe in Allahand the latter day and their hearts are in doubt, so in their doubtdo they waver.
9/46 And if they had intended to go forth, they would certainlyhave provided equipment for it, but Allah did not like theirgoing forth, so He withheld them, and it was said (to them):Hold back with those who hold back.
9/47 Had they gone forth with you, they would not have addedto you aught save corruption, and they would certainly havehurried about among you seeking (to sow) dissension amongyou, and among you there are those who hearken for their sake;and Allah knows the unjust.
9/48 Certainly they sought (to sow) dissension before, and theymeditated plots against you until the truth came, and Allah'scommandment prevailed although they were averse (from it).
9/49 And among them there is he who says: Allow me and donot try me. Surely into trial have they already tumbled down,and most surely hell encompasses the unbelievers.
9/50 If good befalls you, it grieves them, and if hardship afflictsyou, they say: Indeed we had taken care of our affair before; andthey turn back and are glad.
9/51 Say: Nothing will afflict us save what Allah has ordainedfor us; He is our Patron; and on Allah let the believers rely.
9/52 Say: Do you await for us but one of two most excellentthings? And we await for you that Allah will afflict you withpunishment from Himself or by our hands. So wait; we too willwait with you.
9/53 Say: Spend willingly or unwillingly, it shall not be acceptedfrom you; surely you are a transgressing people.
9/54 And nothing hinders their spendings being accepted fromthem, except that they disbelieve in Allah and in His Messenger andthey do not come to prayer but while they are sluggish, and theydo not spend but while they are unwilling.
9/55 Let not then their property and their children excite youradmiration; Allah only wishes to chastise them with these in thisworld's life and (that) their souls may depart while they areunbelievers.
9/56 And they swear by Allah that they are most surely of you,and they are not of you, but they are a people who are afraid (ofyou).
9/57 If they could find a refuge or cave or a place to enter into,they would certainly have turned thereto, running away in allhaste.
9/58 And of them there are those who blame you with respectto the alms; so if they are given from it they are pleased, and ifthey are not given from it, lo! they are full of rage.
9/59 And if they were content with what Allah and His Messengergave them, and had said: Allah is sufficient for us; Allah willsoon give us (more) out of His grace and His Messenger too; surelyto Allah do we make our petition.
9/60 Alms are only for the poor and the needy, and the officials(appointed) over them, and those whose hearts are made toincline (to truth) and the (ransoming of) captives and those indebts and in the way of Allah and the wayfarer; an ordinancefrom Allah; and Allah is knowing, Wise.
9/61 And there are some of them who molest the Prophet andsay: He is one who believes every thing that he hears; say: Ahearer of good for you (who) believes in Allah and believes thefaithful and a mercy for those of you who believe; and (as for)those who molest the Messenger of Allah, they shall have a painfulpunishment.
9/62 They swear to you by Allah that they might please youand, Allah, as well as His Messenger, has a greater right that theyshould please Him, if they are believers.
9/63 Do they not know that whoever acts in opposition toAllah and His Messenger, he shall surely have the fire of hell toabide in it? That is the grievous abasement.
9/64 The hypocrites fear lest a chapter should be sent down tothem telling them plainly of what is in their hearts. Say: Go onmocking, surely Allah will bring forth what you fear.
9/65 And if you should question them, they would certainlysay: We were only idly discoursing and sporting. Say: Was it atAllah and His communications and His Messenger that you mocked?
9/66 Do not make excuses; you have denied indeed after youhad believed; if We pardon a party of you, We will chastise(another) party because they are guilty.
9/67 The hypocritical men and the hypocritical women are allalike; they enjoin evil and forbid good and withhold their hands;they have forsaken Allah, so He has forsaken them; surely thehypocrites are the transgressors.
9/68 Allah has promised the hypocritical men and the hypocriticalwomen and the unbelievers the fire of hell to abidetherein; it is enough for them; and Allah has cursed them andthey shall have lasting punishment.
9/69 Like those before you; they were stronger than you inpower and more abundant in wealth and children, so they enjoyedtheir portion; thus have you enjoyed your portion as thosebefore you enjoyed their portion; and you entered into vaindiscourses like the vain discourses in which entered those beforeyou. These are they whose works are null in this world and thehereafter, and these are they who are the losers.
9/70 Has not the news of those before them come to them; ofthe people of Nuh and Ad and Samood, and the people ofIbrahim and the dwellers of Madyan and the overthrown cities;their messengers came to them with clear arguments; so it was notAllah Who should do them injustice, but they were unjust tothemselves.
9/71 And (as for) the believing men and the believing women,they are guardians of each other; they enjoin good and forbidevil and keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate, and obey Allahand His Messenger; (as for) these, Allah will show mercy to them;surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
9/72 Allah has promised to the believing men and the believingwomen gardens, beneath which rivers flow, to abide in them,and goodly dwellings in gardens of perpetual abode; and best ofall is Allah's goodly pleasure; that is the grand achievement.
9/73 O Prophet! strive hard against the unbelievers and thehypocrites and be unyielding to them; and their abode is hell,and evil is the destination.
9/74 They swear by Allah that they did not speak, and certainlythey did speak, the word of unbelief, and disbelieved after theirIslam, and they had determined upon what they have not beenable to effect, and they did not find fault except because Allahand His Messenger enriched them out of His grace; therefore if theyrepent, it will be good for them; and if they turn back, Allah willchastise them with a painful chastisement in this world and thehereafter, and they shall not have in the land any guardian or ahelper.
9/75 And there are those of them who made a covenant withAllah: If He give us out of His grace, we will certainly give almsand we will certainly be of the good.
9/76 But when He gave them out of His grace, they becameniggardly of it and they turned back and they withdrew.
9/77 So He made hypocrisy to follow as a consequence intotheir hearts till the day when they shall meet Him because theyfailed to perform towards Allah what they had promised withHim and because they told lies.
9/78 Do they not know that Allah knows their hidden thoughtsand their secret counsels, and that Allah is the great Knower ofthe unseen things?
9/79 They who taunt those of the faithful who give their almsfreely, and those who give to the extent of their earnings andscoff at them; Allah will pay them back their scoffing, and theyshall have a painful chastisement.
9/80 Ask forgiveness for them or do not ask forgiveness forthem; even if you ask forgiveness for them seventy times, Allahwill not forgive them; this is because they disbelieve in Allah andHis Messenger, and Allah does not guide the transgressing people.
9/81 Those who were left behind were glad on account of theirsitting behind Allah's Messenger and they were averse from strivingm Allah's way with their property and their persons, and said:Do not go forth in the heat. Say: The fire of hell is much severein heat. Would that they understood (it).
9/82 Therefore they shall laugh little and weep much as arecompense for what they earned.
9/83 Therefore if Allah brings you back to a party of themand then they ask your permission to go forth, say: By no meansshall you ever go forth with me and by no means shall you fightan enemy with me; surely you chose to sit the first time, thereforesit (now) with those who remain behind.
9/84 And never offer prayer for any one of them who dies anddo not stand by his grave; surely they disbelieve in Allah and HisMessenger and they shall die in transgression.
9/85 And let not their property and their children excite youradmlration; Allah only wishes to chastise them with these in thisworld and (that) their souls may depart while they areunbelievers
9/86 And whenever a chapter is revealed, saying: Believe inAllah and strive hard along with His Messenger, those havingampleness of means ask permission of you and say: Leave us(behind), that we may be with those who sit.
9/87 They preferred to be with those who remained behind,and a seal is set on their hearts so they do not understand.
9/88 But the Messenger and those who believe with him strivehard with their property and their persons; and these it is whoshall have the good things and these it is who shall besuccessful.
9/89 Allah has prepared for them gardens beneath which riversflow, to abide in them; that is the great achievement.
9/90 And the defaulters from among the dwellers of the desertcame that permission may be given to them and they sat (athome) who lied to Allah and His Messenger; a painful chastisementshall afflict those of them who disbelieved.
9/91 It shall be no crime in the weak, nor in the sick, nor inthose who do not find what they should spend (to stay behind),so long as they are sincere to Allah and His Messenger; there is noway (to blame) against the doers of good; and Allah is Forgiving,Merciful;
9/92 Nor in those who when they came to you that you mightcarry them, you said: I cannot find that on which to carry you;they went back while their eyes overflowed with tears on accountof grief for not finding that which they should spend.
9/93 The way (to blame) is only against those who ask permissionof you though they are rich; they have chosen to be withthose who remained behind, and Allah has set a seal upon theirhearts so they do not know.
9/94 They will excuse themselves to you when you go back tothem. Say: Urge no excuse, by no means will we believe you;indeed Allah has informed us of matters relating to you; andnow Allah and His Messenger will see your doings, then you shallbe brought back to the Knower of the unseen and the seen, thenHe will inform you of what you did.
9/95 They will swear to you by Allah when you return to themso that you may turn aside from them; so do turn aside fromthem; surely they are unclean and their abode is hell; a recompensefor what they earned.
9/96 They will swear to you that you may be pleased withthem; but if you are pleased with them, yet surely Allah is notpleased with the transgressing people.
9/97 The dwellers of the desert are very hard in unbelief andhypocrisy, and more disposed not to know the limits of whatAllah has revealed to His Messenger; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
9/98 And of the dwellers of the desert are those who take whatthey spend to be a fine, and they wait (the befalling of) calamitiesto you; on them (will be) the evil calamity; and Allah is Hearing,Knowing.
9/99 And of the dwellers of the desert are those who believe inAllah and the latter day and take what they spend to be (meansof) the nearness of Allah and the Messenger's prayers; surely it shallbe means of nearness for them; Allah will make them enter intoHis mercy; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/100 And (as for) the foremost, the first of the Muhajirs andthe Ansars, and those who followed them in goodness, Allah iswell pleased with them and they are well pleased with Him, andHe has prepared for them gardens beneath which rivers flOw, toabide in them for ever; that is the mighty achievement.
9/101 And from among those who are round about you of thedwellers of the desert there are hypocrites, and from among thepeople of Medina (also); they are stubborn in hypocrisy; you donot know them; We know them; We will chastise them twicethen shall they be turned back to a grievous chastisement
9/102 And others have confessed their faults, they have mingleda good deed and an evil one; may be Allah will turn to them(mercifully); surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/103 Take alms out of their property, you would cleanse themand purify them thereby, and pray for them; surely your prayeris a relief to them; and Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
9/104 Do they not know that Allah accepts repentance fromHis servants and takes the alms, and that Allah is the Oft-returning(to mercy), the Merciful?
9/105 And say: Work; so Allah will see your work and (so will)His Messenger and the believers; and you shall be brought back tothe Knower of the unseen and the seen, then He will inform youof what you did.
9/106 And others are made to await Allah's command, whetherHe chastise them or whether He turn to them (mercifully), andAllah is Knowing, Wise.
9/107 And those who built a masjid to cause harm and forunbelief and to cause disunion among the believers and anambush to him who made war against Allah and His Messengerbefore; and they will certainly swear: We did not desire aughtbut good; and Allah bears witness that they are most surelyliars.
9/108 Never stand in it; certainly a masjid founded on pietyfrom the very first day is more deserving that you should standin it; in it are men who love that they should be purified; andAllah loves those who purify themselves.
9/109 Is he, therefore, better who lays his foundation on fear ofAllah and (His) good pleasure, or he who lays his foundation onthe edge of a cracking hollowed bank, so it broke down with himinto the fire of hell; and Allah does not guide the unjustpeople.
9/110 The building which they have built will ever continue tobe a source of disquiet in their hearts, except that their hearts getcut into pieces; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
9/111 Surely Allah has bought of the believers their personsand their property for this, that they shall have the garden; theyfight in Allah's way, so they slay and are slain; a promise whichis binding on Him in the Taurat and the Injeel and the Quran;and who is more faithful to his covenant than Allah? Rejoicetherefore in the pledge which you have made; and that is themighty achievement.
9/112 They who turn (to Allah), who serve (Him), who praise(Him), who fast, who bow down, who prostrate themselves, whoenjoin what is good and forbid what is evil, and who keep thelimits of Allah; and give good news to the believers.
9/113 It is not (fit) for the Prophet and those who believe thatthey should ask forgiveness for the polytheists, even though theyshould be near relatives, after it has become clear to them thatthey are inmates of the flaming fire.
9/114 And Ibrahim asking forgiveness for his sire was onlyowing to a promise which he had made to him; but when itbecame clear to him that he was an enemy of Allah, he declaredhimself to be clear of him; most surely Ibrahim was very tender-heartedforbearing.
9/115 It is not (attributable to) Allah that He should lead apeople astray after He has guided them; He even makes clear tothem what they should guard against; surely Allah knows allthings.
9/116 Surely Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and theearth; He brings to life and causes to die; and there is not for youbesides Allah any Guardian or Helper.
9/117 Certainly Allah has turned (mercifully) to the Prophetand those who fled (their homes) and the helpers who followedhim in the hour of straitness after the hearts of a part of themwere about to deviate, then He turned to them (mercifully);surely to them He is Compassionate, Merciful.
9/118 And to the three who were left behind, until the earthbecame strait to them notwithstanding its spaciousness and theirsouls were also straitened to them; and they knew it for certainthat there was no refuge from Allah but in Him; then He turnedto them (mercifully) that they might turn (to Him); surely Allahis the Oft-returning (to mercy), the Merciful.
9/119 O you who believe! be careful of (your duty to) Allahand be with the true ones.
9/120 It did not beseem the people of Medina and those roundabout them of the dwellers of the desert to remain behind theMessenger of Allah, nor should they desire (anything) for themselvesin preference to him; this is because there afflicts them notthirst or fatigue or hunger in Allah's way, nor do they tread apath which enrages the unbelievers, nor do they attain from theenemy what they attain, but a good work is written down tothem on account of it; surely Allah does not waste the reward ofthe doers of good;
9/121 Nor do they spend anything that may be spent, small orgreat, nor do they traverse a valley, but it is written down to theircredit, that Allah may reward them with the best of what theyhave done.
9/122 And it does not beseem the believers that they should goforth all together; why should not then a company from everyparty from among them go forth that they may apply themselvesto obtain understanding in religion, and that they may warntheir people when they come back to them that they may becautious?
9/123 O you who believe! fight those of the unbelievers who arenear to you and let them find in you hardness; and know thatAllah is with those who guard (against evil).
9/124 And whenever a chapter is revealed, there are some ofthem who say: Which of you has it strengthened in faith? Thenas for those who believe, it strengthens them in faith and theyrejoice.
9/125 And as for those in whose hearts is a disease, it addsuncleanness to their uncleanness and they die while they areunbelievers.
9/126 Do they not see that they are tried once or twice in everyyear, yet they do not turn (to Allah) nor do they mind.
9/127 And whenever a chapter is revealed, they cast glances atone another: Does any one see you? Then they turn away: Allahhas turned away their hearts because they are a people who donot understand.
9/128 Certainly a Messenger has come to you from among yourselves;grievous to him is your falling into distress, excessivelysolicitous respecting you; to the believers (he is)compassionate,
9/129 But if they turn back, say: Allah is sufficient for me,there is no god but He; on Him do I rely, and He is the Lord ofmighty power.
