10/1 Alif Lam Ra. These are the verses of the wise Book.
10/2 What! is it a wonder to the people that We revealed to aman from among themselves, saying: Warn the people and givegood news to those who believe that theirs is a footing offirmness with their Lord. The unbelievers say: This is mostsurely a manifest enchanter.
10/3 Surely your Lord is Allah, Who created the heavens andthe earth in six periods, and He is firm in power, regulating theaffair, there is no intercessor except aher His permission; this isAllah, your Lord, therefore serve Him; will you not then mind?
10/4 To Him is your return, of all (of you); the promise of Allah(made) in truth; surely He begins the creation in the first mstance,then He reproduces it, that He may with justice recompensethose who believe and do good; and (as for) those whodisbelieve, they shall have a drink of hot water and painfulpunishment because they disbelieved.
10/5 He it is Who made the sun a shining brightness and themoon a light, and ordained for it mansions that you might knowthe computation of years and the reckoning. Allah did not createit but with truth; He makes the signs manifest for a people who
10/6 Most surely in the variation of the night and the day, andwhat Allah has created in the heavens and the earth, there aresigns for a people who guard (against evil).
10/7 Surely those who do not hope in Our meeting and arepleased with this world's life and are content with it, and thosewho are heedless of Our communications:
10/8 (As for) those, their abode is the fire because of what theyearned.
10/9 Surely (as for) those who believe and do good, their Lordwill guide them by their faith; there shall flOw from beneaththem rivers in gardens of bliss.
10/10 Their cry in it shall be: Glory to Thee, O Allah! and theirgreeting in it shall be: Peace; and the last of their cry shall be:Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
10/11 And if Allah should hasten the evil to men as they desirethe hastening on of good, their doom should certainly have beendecreed for them; but We leave those alone who hope not forOur meeting in their inordinacy, blindly wandering on.
10/12 And when affliction touches a man, he calls on Us, whetherlying on his side or sitting or standing; but when We remove hisaffliction from him, he passes on as though he had never calledon Us on account of an affliction that touched him; thus thatwhich they do is made fair-seeming to the extravagant.
10/13 And certainly We did destroy generations before youwhen they were unjust, and their messengers had come to them withclear arguments, and they would not believe; thus do We recompensethe guilty people.
10/14 Then We made you successors in the land after them sothat We may see how you act.
10/15 And when Our clear communications are recited to them,those who hope not for Our meeting say: Bring a Quran otherthan this or change it. Say: It does not beseem me that I shouldchange it of myself; I follow naught but what is revealed to me;surely I fear, if I disobey my Lord, the punishment of a mightyday.
10/16 Say: If Allah had desired (otherwise) I would not haverecited it to you, nor would He have taught it to you; indeed Ihave lived a lifetime among you before it; do you not thenunderstand?
10/17 Who is then more unjust than who forges a lie againstAllah or (who) gives the lie to His communications? Surely theguilty shall not be successful.
10/18 And they serve beside Allah what can neither harm themnor profit them, and they say: These are our intercessors withAllah. Say: Do you (presume to) inform Allah of what Heknows not in the heavens and the earth? Glory be to Him, andsupremely exalted is He above what they set up (with Him).
10/19 And people are naught but a single nation, so they disagree;and had not a word already gone forth from your Lord,the matter would have certainly been decided between them inrespect of that concerning which they disagree.
10/20 And they say: Why is not a sign sent to him from hisLord? Say: The unseen is only for Allah; therefore wait-- surely Itoo, with you am of those who wait.
10/21 And when We make people taste of mercy after an afflictiontouches them, lo ! they devise plans against Our communication.Say: Allah is quicker to plan; surely Our messengers writedown what you plan.
10/22 He it is Who makes you travel by land and sea; until whenyou are in the ships, and they sail on with them in a pleasantbreeze, and they rejoice, a violent wind overtakes them and thebillows surge in on them from all sides, and they become certainthat they are encompassed about, they pray to Allah, beingsincere to Him in obedience: If Thou dost deliver us from this,we will most certainly be of the grateful ones.
10/23 But when He delivers them, lo! they are unjustly rebelliousin the earth. O men! your rebellion is against your ownsouls-- provision (only) of this world's life-- then to Us shall beyour return, so We will inform you of what you did.
10/24 The likeness of this world's life is only as water which Wesend down from the cloud, then the herbage of the earth ofwhich men and cattle eat grows luxuriantly thereby, until whenthe earth puts on its golden raiment and it becomes garnished,and its people think that they have power over it, Our commandcomes to it, by night or by day, so We render it as reaped seed;produce, as though it had not been in existence yesterday; thusdo We make clear the communications for a people who reflect.
10/25 And Allah invites to the abode of peace and guides whomHe pleases into the right path.
10/26 For those who do good is good (reward) and more (thanthis); and blackness or ignominy shall not cover their faces; theseare the dwellers of the garden; in it they shall abide.
10/27 And (as for) those who have earned evil, the punishmentof an evil is the like of it, and abasement shall come upon them--they shall have none to protect them from Allah-- as if theirfaces had been covered with slices of the dense darkness of night;these are the inmates of the fire; in it they shall abide.
10/28 And on the day when We will gather them all together,then We will say to those who associated others (with Allah):Keep where you are, you and your associates; then We shallseparate them widely one from another and their associateswould say: It was not us that you served:
10/29 Therefore Allah is sufficient as a witness between us andyou that we were quite unaware of your serving (us).
10/30 There shall every soul become acquainted with what itsent before, and they shall be brought back to Allah, their truePatron, and what they devised shall escape from them.
10/31 Say: Who gives you sustenance from the heaven and theearth? Or Who controls the hearing and the sight? And Whobrings forth the living from the dead, and brings forth the deadfrom the living? And Who regulates the affairs? Then they willsay: Allah. Say then: Will you not then guard (against evil)?
10/32 This then is Allah, your true Lord; and what is there afterthe truth but error; how are you then turned back?
10/33 Thus does the word of your Lord prove true against thosewho transgress that they do not believe.
10/34 Say: Is there any one among your associates who canbring into existence the creation in the first instance, then reproduceit? Say: Allah brings the creation into existence, then Hereproduces it; how are you then turned away?
10/35 Say: Is there any of your associates who guides to thetruth? Say: Allah guides to the truth. Is He then Who guides tothe truth more worthy to be followed, or he who himself doesnot go aright unless he is guided? What then is the matter withyou; how do you judge?
10/36 And most of them do not follow (anything) but conjecture;surely conjecture will not avail aught against the truth;surely Allah is cognizant of what they do.
10/37 And this Quran is not such as could be forged by thosebesides Allah, but it is a verification of that which is before it anda clear explanation of the book, there is no doubt in it, from theLord of the worlds.
10/38 Or do they say: He has forged it? Say: Then bring achapter like this and invite whom you can besides Allah, if youare truthful.
10/39 Nay, they reject that of which they have no comprehensiveknowledge, and the final sequel of it has not yet come to them;even thus did those before them reject (the truth); see then whatwas the end of the unjust.
10/40 And of them is he who believes in it, and of them is hewho does not believe in it, and your Lord best knows themischief-makers.
10/41 And if they call you a liar, say: My work is for me andyour work for you; you are clear of what I do and I am clear ofwhat you do.
10/42 And there are those of them who hear you, but can youmake the deaf to hear though they will not understand?
10/43 And there are those of them who look at you, but can youshow the way to the blind though they will not see?
10/44 Surely Allah does not do any injustice to men, but menare unjust to themselves.
10/45 And on the day when He will gather them as though theyhad not stayed but an hour of the day, they will know eachother. They will perish indeed who called the meeting with Allahto be a lie, and they are not followers of the right direction.
10/46 And if We show you something of what We threaten themwith, or cause you to die, yet to Us is their return, and Allah isthe bearer of witness to what they do.
10/47 And every nation had a messenger; so when their messengercame, the matter was decided between them with justice and theyshall not be dealt with unjustly.
10/48 And they say: When will this threat come about, if you aretruthful?
10/49 Say: I do not control for myself any harm, or any benefitexcept what Allah pleases; every nation has a term; when theirterm comes, they shall not then remain behind for an hour, norcan they go before (their time).
10/50 Say: Tell me if His punishment overtakes you by night orby day! what then is there of it that the guilty would hasten on?
10/51 And when it comes to pass, will you believe in it? What!now (you believe), and already you wished to have it hastened on.
10/52 Then it shall be said to those who were unjust: Tasteabiding chastisement; you are not requited except for what youearned.
10/53 And they ask you: Is that true? Say: Aye! by my Lord! it ismost surely the truth, and you will not escape.
10/54 And if every soul that has done injustice had all that is inthe earth, it would offer it for ransom, and they will manifestregret when they see the chastisement and the matter shall bedecided between them with justice and they shall not be dealtwith unjustly.
10/55 Now surely Allah's is what is in the heavens and the earth;now surely Allah's promise is true, but most of them do notknow.
10/56 He gives life and causes death, and to Him you shall bebrought back.
10/57 O men! there has come to you indeed an admonition fromyour Lord and a healing for what is in the breasts and a guidanceand a mercy for the believers.
10/58 Say: In the grace of Allah and in His mercy-- in that theyshould rejoice; it is better than that which they gather.
10/59 Say: Tell me what Allah has sent down for you of sustenance,then you make (a part) of it unlawful and (a part)lawful. Say: Has Allah commanded you, or do you forge a lieagainst Allah?
10/60 And what will be the thought of those who forge liesagainst Allah on the day of resurrection? Most surely Allah isthe Lord of grace towards men, but most of them do not givethanks.
10/61 And you are not (engaged) in any affair, nor do you reciteconcerning it any portion of the Quran, nor do you do any workbut We are witnesses over you when you enter into it, and theredoes not lie concealed from your Lord the weight of an atom inthe earth or in the heaven, nor any thing less than that norgreater, but it is in a clear book.
10/62 Now surely the friends of Allah-- they shall have no fearnor shall they grieve.
10/63 Those who believe and guarded (against evil):
10/64 They shall have good news in this world's life and in thehereafter; there is no changing the words of Allah; that is themighty achievement.
10/65 And let not their speech grieve you; surely might is whollyAllah's; He is the Hearing, the Knowing.
10/66 Now, surely, whatever is in the heavens and whatever is inthe earth is Allah's; and they do not (really) follow any associates,who call on others besides Allah; they do not follow(anything) but conjectures, and they only lie.
10/67 He it is Who made for you the night that you might rest init, and the day giving light; most surely there are signs in it for apeople who would hear.
10/68 They say: Allah has taken a son (to Himself)! Glory be toHim: He is the Self-sufficient: His is what is in the heavens andwhat is in the earth; you have no authority for this; do you sayagainst Allah what you do not know?
10/69 Say: Those who forge a lie against Allah shall not besuccessful.
10/70 (It is only) a provision in this world, then to Us shall betheir return; then We shall make them taste severe punishmentbecause they disbelieved.
10/71 And recite to them the story of Nuh when he said to hispeople: O my people! if my stay and my reminding (you) by thecommunications of Allah is hard on you-- yet on Allah do Irely-- then resolve upon your affair and (gather) your associates,then let not your affair remain dubious to you, then have itexecuted against me and give me no respite:
10/72 But if you turn back, I did not ask for any reward fromyou; my reward is only with Allah, and I am commanded that Ishould be of those who submit.
10/73 But they rejected him, so We delivered him and those withhim in the ark, and We made them rulers and drowned thosewho rejected Our communications; see then what was the end ofthe (people) warned.
10/74 Then did We raise up after him messengers to their people, sothey came to them with clear arguments, but they would notbelieve in what they had rejected before; thus it is that We setseals upon the hearts of those who exceed the limits.
10/75 Then did We send up after them Musa and Haroun toFiron and his chiefs with Our signs, but they showed pride andthey were a guilty people.
10/76 So when the truth came to them from Us they said: This ismost surely clear enchantment!
10/77 Musa said: Do you say (this) of the truth when it has cometo you? Is it magic? And the magicians are not successful.
10/78 They said: Have you come to us to turn us away fromwhat we found our fathers upon, and (that) greatness in the landshould be for you two? And we are not going to believe in you.
10/79 And Firon said: Bring to me every skillful magician.
10/80 And when the magicians came, Musa said to them: Castdown what you have to cast.
10/81 So when they cast down, Musa said to them: What youhave brought is deception; surely Allah will make it naught;surely Allah does not make the work of mischief-makers tothrive.
10/82 And Allah will show the truth to be the truth by Hiswords, though the guilty may be averse (to it).
10/83 But none believed in Musa except the offspring of hispeople, on account of the fear of Firon and their chiefs, lest heshould persecute them; and most surely Firon was lofty in theland; and most surely he was of the extravagant.
10/84 And Musa said: O my people! if you believe in Allah, thenrely on Him (alone) if you submit (to Allah).
10/85 So they said: On Allah we rely: O our Lord! make us notsubject to the persecution of the unjust people:
10/86 And do Thou deliver us by Thy mercy from the unbelievingpeople.
10/87 And We revealed to Musa and his brother, saying: Takefor your people houses to abide in Egypt and make your housesplaces of worship and keep up prayer and give good news to thebelievers.
10/88 And Musa said: Our Lord! surely Thou hast given toFiron and his chiefs finery and riches in this world's life, to thisend, our Lord, that they lead (people) astray from Thy way: OurLord! destroy their riches and harden their hearts so that theybelieve not until they see the painful punishment.
10/89 He said: The prayer of you both has indeed been accepted,therefore continue in the right way and do not follow the path ofthose who do not know.
10/90 And We made the children of Israel to pass through thesea, then Firon and his hosts followed them for oppression andtyranny; until when drowning overtook him, he said: I believethat there is no god but He in Whom the children of Israelbelieve and I am of those who submit.
10/91 What! now! and indeed you disobeyed before and youwere of the mischief-makers.
10/92 But We will this day deliver you with your body that youmay be a sign to those after you, and most surely the majority ofthe people are heedless to Our communications.
10/93 And certainly We lodged the children of Israel in a goodlyabode and We provided them with good things; but they did notdisagree until the knowledge had come to them; surely yourLord will judge between them on the resurrection day concerningthat in which they disagreed.
10/94 But if you are in doubt as to what We have revealed toyou, ask those who read the Book before you; certainly the truthhas come to you from your Lord, therefore you should not be ofthe disputers.
10/95 And you should not be of those who reject the communicationsof Allah, (for) then you should be one of the losers.
10/96 Surely those against whom the word of your Lord hasproved true will not believe,
10/97 Though every sign should come to them, until they witnessthe painful chastisement.
10/98 And wherefore was there not a town which should believeso that their belief should have profited them but the people ofYunus? When they believed, We removed from them the chastisementof disgrace in this world's life and We gave them provisiontill a time.
10/99 And if your Lord had pleased, surely all those who are inthe earth would have believed, all of them; will you then forcemen till they become believers?
10/100 And it is not for a soul to believe except by Allah'spermission; and He casts uncleanness on those who will notunderstand.
10/101 Say: Consider what is it that is in the heavens and theearth; and signs and warners do not avail a people who wouldnot believe.
10/102 What do they wait for then but the like of the days ofthose who passed away before them? Say: Wait then; surely I tooam with you of those who wait.
10/103 Then We deliver Our messengers and those who believe--even so (now), it is binding on Us (that) We deliver thebelievers.
10/104 Say: O people! if you are in doubt as to my religion, then(know that) I do not serve those whom you serve besides Allahbut I do serve Allah, Who will cause you to die, and I amcommanded that I should be of the believers.
10/105 And that you should keep your course towards the religionuprightly; and you should not be of the polytheists.
10/106 And do not call besides Allah on that which can neitherbenefit you nor harm you, for if you do then surely you will inthat case be of the unjust.
10/107 And if Allah should afflict you with harm, then there isnone to remove it but He; and if He intends good to you there isnone to repel His grace; He brings it to whom He pleases of Hisservants; and He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
10/108 Say: O people! indeed there has come to you the truthfrom your Lord, therefore whoever goes aright, he goes arightonly for the good of his own soul, and whoever goes astray, hegoes astray only to the detriment of it, and I am not a custodianover you.
10/109 And follow what is revealed to you and be patient tillAllah should give judgment, and He is the best of the judges.
