12/1 Alif Lam Ra. These are the verses of the Book that makes(things) manifest.
12/2 Surely We have revealed it-- an Arabic Quran-- that you mayunderstand.
12/3 We narrate to you the best of narratives, by Ourrevealing to you this Quran, though before this you werecertainly one of those who did not know.
12/4 When Yusuf said to his father: O my father! surely I saweleven stars and the sun and the moon-- I saw them makingobeisance to me.
12/5 He said: O my son! do not relate your vision to yourbrothers, lest they devise a plan against you; surely theShaitan is an open enemy to man.
12/6 And thus will your Lord choose you and teach you theinterpretation of sayings and make His favor complete to youand to the children of Yaqoub, as He made it complete beforeto your fathers, Ibrahim and Ishaq; surely your Lord isKnowing, Wise.
12/7 Certainly in Yusuf and his brothers there are signs forthe inquirers.
12/8 When they said: Certainly Yusuf and his brother aredearer to our father than we, though we are a (stronger)company; most surely our father is in manifest error:
12/9 Slay Yusuf or cast him (forth) into some land, so thatyour father's regard may be exclusively for you, and afterthat you may be a righteous people.
12/10 A speaker from among them said: Do not slay Yusuf, andcast him down into the bottom of the pit if you must do(it), (so that) some of the travellers may pick him up.
12/11 They said: O our father! what reason have you that youdo not trust in us with respect to Yusuf? And most surely weare his sincere well-wishers:
12/12 Send him with us tomorrow that he may enjoy himself andsport, and surely we will guard him well.
12/13 He said: Surely it grieves me that you should take himoff, and I fear lest the wolf devour him while you areheedless of him.
12/14 They said: Surely if the wolf should devour himnotwithstanding that we are a (strong) company, we shouldthen certainly be losers.
12/15 So when they had gone off with him and agreed that theyshould put him down at the bottom of the pit, and Werevealed to him: You will most certainly inform them of thistheir affair while they do not perceive.
12/16 And they came to their father at nightfall, weeping.
12/17 They said: O our father! surely we went off racing andleft Yusuf by our goods, so the wolf devoured him, and youwill not believe us though we are truthful.
12/18 And they brought his shirt with false blood upon it. Hesaid: Nay, your souls have made the matter light for you,but patience is good and Allah is He Whose help is soughtfor against what you describe.
12/19 And there came travellers and they sent theirwater-drawer and he let down his bucket. He said: O goodnews! this is a youth; and they concealed him as an articleof merchandise, and Allah knew what they did.
12/20 And they sold him for a small price, a few pieces ofsilver, and they showed no desire for him.
12/21 And the Egyptian who bought him said to his wife: Givehim an honorable abode, maybe he will be useful to us, or wemay adopt him as a son. And thus did We establish Yusuf inthe land and that We might teach him the interpretation ofsayings; and Allah is the master of His affair, but mostpeople do not know.
12/22 And when he had attained his maturity, We gave himwisdom and knowledge: and thus do We reward those who dogood.
12/23 And she in whose house he was sought to make himselfyield (to her), and she made fast the doors and said: Comeforward. He said: I seek Allah's refuge, surely my Lord madegood my abode: Surely the unjust do not prosper.
12/24 And certainly she made for him, and he would have madefor her, were it not that he had seen the manifest evidenceof his Lord; thus (it was) that We might turn away from himevil and indecency, surely he was one of Our sincereservants.
12/25 And they both hastened to the door, and she rent hisshirt from behind and they met her husband at the door. Shesaid: What is the punishment of him who intends evil to yourwife except imprisonment or a painful chastisement?
12/26 He said: She sought to make me yield (to her); and awitness of her own family bore witness: If his shirt is rentfrom front, she speaks the truth and he is one of the liars:
12/27 And if his shirt is rent from behind, she tells a lieand he is one of the truthful.
12/28 So when he saw his shirt rent from behind, he said:Surely it is a guile of you women; surely your guile isgreat:
12/29 O Yusuf! turn aside from this; and (O my wife)! askforgiveness for your fault, surely you are one of thewrong-doers.
12/30 And women in the city said: The chiefs wife seeks herslave to yield himself (to her), surely he has affected herdeeply with (his) love; most surely we see her in manifesterror.
12/31 So when she heard of their sly talk she sent for themand prepared for them a repast, and gave each of them aknife, and said (to Yusuf): Come forth to them. So when theysaw him, they deemed him great, and cut their hands (inamazement), and said: Remote is Allah (from inperfection);this is not a mortal; this is but a noble angel.
12/32 She said: This is he with respect to whom you blamed me,and certainly I sought his yielding himself (to me), but heabstained, and if he does not do what I bid him, he shallcertainly be imprisoned, and he shall certainly be of thosewho are in a state of ignominy.
12/33 He said: My Lord! the prison house is dearer to me thanthat to which they invite me; and if Thou turn not awaytheir device from me, I will yearn towards them and become(one) of the ignorant.
12/34 Thereupon his Lord accepted his prayer and turned awaytheir guile from him; surely He is the Hearing, the Knowing.
12/35 Then it occurred to them after they had seen the signsthat they should imprison him till a time.
12/36 And two youths entered the prison with him. One of themsaid: I saw myself pressing wine. And the other said: I sawmyself carrying bread on my head, of which birds ate. Informus of its interpretation; surely we see you to be of thedoers of good.
12/37 He said: There shall not come to you the food with whichyou are fed, but I will inform you both of itsinterpretation before it comes to you; this is of what myLord has taught me; surely I have forsaken the religion of apeople who do not believe in Allah, and they are deniers ofthe hereafter:
12/38 And I follow the religion of my fathers, Ibrahim andIshaq and Yaqoub; it beseems us not that we should associateaught with Allah; this is by Allah's grace upon us and onmankind, but most people do not give thanks:
12/39 O my two mates of the prison! are sundry lords better orAllah the One, the Supreme?
12/40 You do not serve besides Him but names which you havenamed, you and your fathers; Allah has not sent down anyauthority for them; judgment is only Allah's; He hascommanded that you shall not serve aught but Him; this isthe right religion but most people do not know:
12/41 O my two mates of the prison! as for one of you, heshall give his lord to drink wine; and as for the other, heshall be crucified, so that the birds shall eat from hishead, the matter is decreed concerning which you inquired.
12/42 And he said to him whom he knew would be delivered ofthe two: Remember me with your lord; but the Shaitan causedhim to forget mentioning (it) to his lord, so he remained inthe prison a few years.
12/43 And the king said: Surely I see seven fat kine whichseven lean ones devoured; and seven green ears and (seven)others dry: O chiefs! explain to me my dream, if you caninterpret the dream.
12/44 They said: Confused dreams, and we do not know theinterpretation of dreams.
12/45 And of the two (prisoners) he who had found deliveranceand remembered after a long time said: I will inform you ofits interpretation, so let me go:
12/46 Yusuf! O truthful one! explain to us seven fat kinewhich seven lean ones devoured, and seven green ears and(seven) others dry, that I may go back to the people so thatthey may know.
12/47 He said: You shall sow for seven years continuously,then what you reap leave it in its ear except a little ofwhich you eat.
12/48 Then there shall come after that seven years of hardshipwhich shall eat away all that you have beforehand laid up instore for them, except a little of what you shall havepreserved:
12/49 Then there will come after that a year in which peopleshall have rain and in which they shall press (grapes).
12/50 And the king said: Bring him to me. So when themessenger came to him, he said: Go back to your lord and askhim, what is the case of the women who cut their hands;surely my Lord knows their guile.
12/51 He said: How was your affair when you sought Yusuf toyield himself (to you)? They said: Remote is Allah (fromimperfection), we knew of no evil on his part. The chief'swife said: Now has the truth become established: I soughthim to yield himself (to me), and he is most surely of thetruthful ones.
12/52 This is that he might know that I have not beenunfaithful to him in secret and that Allah does not guidethe device of the unfaithful.
12/53 And I do not declare myself free, most surely (man's)self is wont to command (him to do) evil, except such as myLord has had mercy on, surely my Lord is Forgiving,Merciful.
12/54 And the king said: Bring him to me, I will choose himfor myself. So when he had spoken with him, he said: Surelyyou are in our presence today an honorable, a faithful one.
12/55 He said: Place me (in authority) over the treasures ofthe land, surely I am a good keeper, knowing well.
12/56 And thus did We give to Yusuf power in the land-- he hadmastery in it wherever he liked; We send down Our mercy onwhom We please, and We do not waste the reward of those whodo good.
12/57 And certainly the reward of the hereafter is much betterfor those who believe and guard (against evil).
12/58 And Yusuf's brothers came and went in to him, and heknew them, while they did not recognize him.
12/59 And when he furnished them with their provision, hesaid: Bring to me a brother of yours from your father; doyou not see that I give full measure and that I am the bestof hosts?
12/60 But if you do not bring him to me, you shall have nomeasure (of corn) from me, nor shall you come near me.
12/61 They said: We will strive to make his father yield inrespect of him, and we are sure to do (it).
12/62 And he said to his servants: Put their money into theirbags that they may recognize it when they go back to theirfamily, so that they may come back.
12/63 So when they returned to their father, they said: O ourfather, the measure is withheld from us, therefore send withus our brother, (so that) we may get the measure, and wewill most surely guard him.
12/64 He said: I cannot trust in you with respect to him,except as I trusted in you with respect to his brotherbefore; but Allah is the best Keeper, and He is the mostMerciful of the merciful ones.
12/65 And when they opened their goods, they found their moneyreturned to them. They said: O our father! what (more) canwe desire? This is our property returned to us, and we willbring corn for our family and guard our brother, and willhave in addition the measure of a camel (load); this is aneasy measure.
12/66 He said: I will by no means send him with you until yougive me a firm covenant in Allah's name that you will mostcertainly bring him back to me, unless you are completelysurrounded. And when they gave him their covenant, he said:Allah is the One in Whom trust is placed as regards what wesay.
12/67 And he said: O my sons ! do not (all) enter by one gateand enter by different gates and I cannot avail you aughtagainst Allah; judgment is only Allah's; on Him do I rely,and on Him let those who are reliant rely.
12/68 And when they had entered as their father had biddenthem, it did not avail them aught against Allah, but (it wasonly) a desire in the soul of Yaqoub which he satisfied; andsurely he was possessed of knowledge because We had givenhim knowledge, but most people do not know.
12/69 And when they went in to Yusuf. he lodged his brotherwith himself, saying: I am your brother, therefore grievenot at what they do.
12/70 So when he furnished them with their provisions,(someone) placed the drinking cup in his brother's bag. Thena crier cried out: O caravan! you are most surely thieves.
12/71 They said while they were facing them: What is it thatyou miss?
12/72 They said: We miss the king's drinking cup, and he whoshall bring it shall have a camel-load and I am responsiblefor it.
12/73 They said: By Allah! you know for certain that we havenot come to make mischief in the land, and we are notthieves.
12/74 They said: But what shall be the requital of this, ifyou are liars?
12/75 They said: The requital of this is that the person inwhose bag it is found shall himself be (held for) thesatisfaction thereof; thus do we punish the wrongdoers.
12/76 So he began with their sacks before the sack of hisbrother, then he brought it out from his brother's sack.Thus did We plan for the sake of Yusuf; it was not (lawful)that he should take his brother under the king's law unlessAllah pleased; We raise the degrees of whomsoever We please,and above every one possessed of knowledge is theAll-knowing one.
12/77 They said: If he steal, a brother of his did indeedsteal before; but Yusuf kept it secret in his heart and didnot disclose it to them. He said: You are in an evilcondition and Allah knows best what you state.
12/78 They said: O chief! he has a father, a very old man,therefore retain one of us in his stead; surely we see youto be of the doers of good.
12/79 He said: Allah protect us that we should seize otherthan him with whom we found our property, for then mostsurely we would be unjust.
12/80 Then when they despaired of him, they retired,conferring privately together. The eldest of them said: Doyou not know that your father took from you a covenant inAllah's name, and how you fell short of your duty withrespect to Yusuf before? Therefore I will by no means departfrom this land until my father permits me or Allah decidesfor me, and He is the best of the judges:
12/81 Go back to your father and say: O our father! surelyyour son committed theft, and we do not bear witness exceptto what we have known, and we could not keep watch over theunseen:
12/82 And inquire in the town in which we were and the caravanwith which we proceeded, and most surely we are truthful.
12/83 He (Yaqoub) said: Nay, your souls have made a matterlight for you, so patience is good; maybe Allah will bringthem all together to me; surely He is the Knowing, the Wise.
12/84 And he turned away from them, and said: O my sorrow forYusuf! and his eyes became white on account of the grief,and he was a repressor (of grief).
12/85 They said: By Allah! you will not cease to rememberYusuf until you are a prey to constant disease or (until)you are of those who perish.
12/86 He said: I only complain of my grief and sorrow toAllah, and I know from Allah what you do not know.
12/87 O my sons! Go and inquire respecting Yusuf and hisbrother, and despair not of Allah's mercy; surely nonedespairs of Allah's mercy except the unbelieving people.
12/88 So when they came in to him, they said: O chief!distress has afflicted us and our family and we have broughtscanty money, so give us full measure and be charitable tous; surely Allah rewards the charitable.
12/89 He said: Do you know how you treated Yusuf and hisbrother when you were ignorant?
12/90 They said: Are you indeed Yusuf? He said: I am Yusuf andthis is my brother; Allah has indeed been gracious to us;surely he who guards (against evil) and is patient (isrewarded) for surely Allah does not waste the reward ofthose who do good.
12/91 They said: By Allah! now has Allah certainly chosen youover us, and we were certainly sinners.
12/92 He said: (There shall be) no reproof against you thisday; Allah may forgive you, and He is the most Merciful ofthe merciful.
12/93 Take this my shirt and cast it on my father's face, hewill (again) be able to see, and come to me with all yourfamilies.
12/94 And when the caravan had departed, their father said:Most surely I perceive the greatness of Yusuf, unless youpronounce me to be weak in judgment.
12/95 They said: By Allah, you are most surely in your olderror.
12/96 So when the bearer of good news came he cast it on hisface, so forthwith he regained his sight. He said: Did I notsay to you that I know from Allah what you do not know?
12/97 They said: O our father! ask forgiveness of our faultsfor us, surely we were sinners.
12/98 He said: I will ask for you forgiveness from my Lord;surely He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
12/99 Then when they came in to Yusuf, he took his parents tolodge with him and said: Enter safe into Egypt, if Allahplease.
12/100 And he raised his parents upon the throne and they felldown in prostration before him, and he said: O my father!this is the significance of my vision of old; my Lord hasindeed made it to be true; and He was indeed kind to me whenHe brought me forth from the prison and brought you from thedesert after the Shaitan had sown dissensions between me andmy brothers, surely my Lord is benignant to whom He pleases;surely He is the Knowing, the Wise.
12/101 My Lord! Thou hast given me of the kingdom and taughtme of the interpretation of sayings: Originator of theheavens and the earth! Thou art my guardian in this worldand the hereafter; make me die a muslim and join me with thegood.
12/102 This is of the announcements relating to the unseen(which) We reveal to you, and you were not with them whenthey resolved upon their affair, and they were devisingplans.
12/103 And most men will not believe though you desire iteagerly.
12/104 And you do not ask them for a reward for this; it isnothing but a reminder for all mankind.
12/105 And how many a sign in the heavens and the earth whichthey pass by, yet they turn aside from it.
12/106 And most of them do not believe in Allah withoutassociating others (with Him).
12/107 Do they then feel secure that there may come to them anextensive chastisement from Allah or (that) the hour maycome to them suddenly while they do not perceive?
12/108 Say: This is my way: I call to Allah, I and those whofollow me being certain, and glory be to Allah, and I am notone of the polytheists.
12/109 And We have not sent before you but men from (among)the people of the towns, to whom We sent revelations. Havethey not then travelled in the land and seen what was theend of those before them? And certainly the abode of thehereafter is best for those who guard (against evil); do younot then understand?
12/110 Until when the messengers despaired and the people becamesure that they were indeed told a lie, Our help came to themand whom We pleased was delivered; and Our punishment is notaverted from the guilty people.
12/111 In their histories there is certainly a lesson for menof understanding. It is not a narrative which could beforged, but a verification of what is before it and adistinct explanation of all things and a guide and a mercyto a people who believe.
