46/1 Ha. Mim.
46/2 The revelation of the Scripture is from Allah the Mighty, theWise.
46/3 We created not the heavens and the earth and all that isbetween them save with truth, and for a term appointed. But those whodisbelieve turn away from that whereof they are warned.
46/4 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Have ye thought on all that yeinvoke beside Allah? Show me what they have created of the earth. Or havethey any portion in the heavens? Bring me a scripture before this(Scripture), or some vestige of knowledge (in support of what ye say), ifye are truthful.
46/5 And who is further astray than those who, instead of Allah,pray unto such as hear not their prayer until the Day of Resurrection, andare unconscious of their prayer,
46/6 And when mankind are gathered (to the Judgment) will becomeenemies for them, and will become deniers of having been worshipped.
46/7 And when Our clear revelations are recited unto them, thosewho disbelieve say of the Truth when it reacheth them: This is mere magic.
46/8 Or say they: He hath invented it? Say (O Muhammad): If I haveinvented it, still ye have no power to support me against Allah. He is BestAware of what ye say among yourselves concerning it. He sufficeth for awitness between me and you. And He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
46/9 Say: I am no new thing among the messengers (of Allah), norknow I what will be done with me or with you. I do but follow that which isinspired in me, and I am but a plain warner.
46/10 Bethink you: If it is from Allah and ye disbelieve therein,and a witness of the Children of Israel hath already testified to the likethereof and hath believed, and ye are too proud (what plight is yours)? Lo!Allah guideth not wrong-doing folk.
46/11 And those who disbelieve say of those who believe: If it hadbeen (any) good, they would not have been before us in attaining it. Andsince they will not be guided by it, they say: This is an ancient lie;
46/12 When before it there was the Scripture of Moses, an exampleand a mercy; and this is a confirming Scripture in the Arabic language,that it may warn those who do wrong and bring good tidings for therighteous.
46/13 Lo! those who say: Our Lord is Allah, and thereafter walkaright, there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.
46/14 Such are rightful owners of the Garden, immortal therein, as areward for what they used to do.
46/15 And We have commended unto man kindness toward parents. Hismother beareth him with reluctance, and bringeth him forth with reluctance,and the bearing of him and the weaning of him is thirty months, till, whenhe attaineth full strength and reacheth forty years, he saith: My Lord!Arouse me that I may give thanks for the favour wherewith Thou hastfavoured me and my parents, and that I may do right acceptable unto Thee.And be gracious unto me in the matter of my seed. Lo! I have turned untoThee repentant, and lo! I am of those who surrender (unto Thee).
46/16 Those are they from whom We accept the best of what they do,and overlook their evil deeds. (They are) among the owners of the Garden.This is the true promise which they were promised (in the world).
46/17 And whoso saith unto his parents: Fie upon you both! Do yethreaten me that I shall be brought forth (again) when generations beforeme have passed away? And they twain cry unto Allah for help (and say): Woeunto thee! Believe! Lo! the promise of Allah is true. But he saith: This isnaught save fables of the men of old:
46/18 Such are those on whom the Word concerning nations of the jinnand mankind which have passed away before them hath effect. Lo! they arethe losers.
46/19 And for all there will be ranks from what they do, that He maypay them for their deeds; and they will not be wronged.
46/20 And on the day when those who disbelieve are exposed to theFire (it will be said): Ye squandered your good things in the life of theworld and sought comfort therein. Now this day ye are rewarded with thedoom of ignominy because ye were disdainful in the land without a right,and because ye used to transgress.
46/21 And make mention (O Muhammad) of the brother of A'ad when hewarned his folk among the wind-curved sandhills - and verily warners cameand went before and after him - saying: Serve none but Allah. Lo! I fearfor you the doom of a tremendous Day.
46/22 They said: Hast come to turn us away from our gods? Then bringupon us that wherewith thou threatenest us, if thou art of the truthful.
46/23 He said: The knowledge is with Allah only. I convey unto youthat wherewith I have been sent, but I see you are a folk that know not.
46/24 Then, when they beheld it as a dense cloud coming toward theirvalleys, they said: Here is a cloud bringing us rain. Nay, but it is thatwhich ye did seek to hasten, a wind wherein is painful torment,
46/25 Destroying all things by commandment of its Lord. And morningfound them so that naught could be seen save their dwellings. Thus do Wereward the guilty folk.
46/26 And verily We had empowered them with that wherewith We havenot empowered you, and had assigned them ears and eyes and hearts; buttheir ears and eyes and hearts availed them naught since they denied therevelations of Allah; and what they used to mock befell them.
46/27 And verily We have destroyed townships round about you, anddisplayed (for them) Our revelation, that haply they might return.
46/28 Then why did those whom they had chosen for gods as a way ofapproach (unto Allah) not help them? Nay, but they did fail them utterly.And (all) that was their lie, and what they used to invent.
46/29 And when We inclined toward thee (Muhammad) certain of thejinn, who wished to hear the Qur'an and, when they were in its presence,said: Give ear! and, when it was finished, turned back to their people,warning.
46/30 They said: O our people! Lo! we have heard a scripture whichhath been revealed after Moses, confirming that which was before it,guiding unto the truth and a right road.
46/31 O our people! respond to Allah's summoner and believe in Him.He will forgive you some of your sins and guard you from a painful doom.
46/32 And whoso respondeth not to Allah's summoner he can nowiseescape in the earth, and he hath no protecting friends instead of Him. Suchare in error manifest.
46/33 Have they not seen that Allah, Who created the heavens and theearth and was not wearied by their creation, is Able to give life to thedead? Aye, He verily is Able to do all things.
46/34 And on the day when those who disbelieve are exposed to theFire (they will be asked): Is not this real? They will say: Yea, by ourLord. He will say: Then taste the doom for that ye disbelieved.
46/35 Then have patience (O Muhammad) even as the stout of heartamong the messengers (of old) had patience, and seek not to hasten on (thedoom) for them. On the day when they see that which they are promised (itwill seem to them) as though they had tarried but an hour of daylight. Aclear message. Shall any be destroyed save evil-living folk?
