3/1 Alim. Lam. Mim.
3/2 Allah! There is no Allah save Him, the Alive, the Eternal.
3/3 He hath revealed unto thee (Muhammad) the Scripture withtruth, confirming that which was (revealed) before it, even as He revealedthe Torah and the Gospel.
3/4 Aforetime, for a guidance to mankind; and hath revealed theCriterion (of right and wrong). Lo! those who disbelieve the revelations ofAllah, theirs will be a heavy doom. Allah is Mighty, Able to Requite (thewrong).
3/5 Lo! nothing in the earth or in the heavens is hidden fromAllah.
3/6 He it is Who fashioneth you in the wombs as pleaseth Him.There is no Allah save Him, the Almighty, the Wise.
3/7 He it is Who hath revealed unto thee (Muhammad) the Scripturewherein are clear revelations - they are the substance of the Book - andothers (which are) allegorical. But those in whose hearts is doubt pursue,forsooth, that which is allegorical seeking (to cause) dissension byseeking to explain it. None knoweth its explanation save Allah. And thosewho are of sound instruction say: We believe therein; the whole is from ourLord; but only men of understanding really heed.
3/8 Our Lord! Cause not our hearts to stray after Thou hast guidedus, and bestow upon us mercy from Thy Presence. Lo! Thou, only Thou, artthe Bestower.
3/9 Our Lord! Lo! it is Thou Who gatherest mankind together to aDay of which there is no doubt. Lo! Allah faileth not to keep the tryst.
3/10 (On that Day) neither the riches nor the progeny of those whodisbelieve will aught avail them with Allah. They will be fuel for Fire.
3/11 Like Pharaoh's folk and those who were before them, theydisbelieved Our revelations and so Allah seized them for their sins. AndAllah is severe in punishment.
3/12 Say (O Muhammad) unto those who disbelieve: Ye shall beovercome and gathered unto Hell, an evil resting-place.
3/13 There was a token for you in two hosts which met: one armyfighting in the way of Allah, and another disbelieving, whom they saw astwice their number, clearly, with their very eyes. Thus Allah strengthenethwith His succour whom He will. Lo! herein verily is a lesson for those whohave eyes.
3/14 Beautified for mankind is love of the joys (that come) fromwomen and offspring; and stored-up heaps of gold and silver, and horsesbranded (with their mark), and cattle and land. That is comfort of the lifeof the world. Allah! With Him is a more excellent abode.
3/15 Say: Shall I inform you of something better than that? Forthose who keep from evil, with their Lord, are Gardens underneath whichrivers flow wherein they will abide, and pure companions, and contentmentfrom Allah. Allah is Seer of His bondmen,
3/16 Those who say: Our Lord! Lo! we believe. So forgive us oursins and guard us from the punishment of Fire;
3/17 The steadfast, and the truthful, and the obedient, those whospend (and hoard not), those who pray for pardon in the watches of thenight.
3/18 Allah (Himself) is Witness that there is no Allah save Him. Andthe angels and the men of learning (too are witness). Maintaining Hiscreation in justice, there is no Allah save Him the Almighty, the Wise.
3/19 Lo! religion with Allah (is) the Surrender (to His Will andGuidance). Those who (formerly) received the Scripture differed only afterknowledge came unto them, through transgression among themselves. Whosodisbelieveth the revelations of Allah (will find that) lo! Allah is swiftat reckoning.
3/20 And if they argue with thee, (O Muhammad), say: I havesurrendered my purpose to Allah and (so have) those who follow me. And sayunto those who have received the Scripture and those who read not: Have ye(too) surrendered? If they surrender, then truly they are rightly guided,and if they turn away, then it is thy duty only to convey the message (untothem). Allah is Seer of (His) bondmen.
3/21 Lo! those who disbelieve the revelations of Allah, and slaythe prophets wrongfully, and slay those of mankind who enjoin equity:promise them a painful doom.
3/22 Those are they whose works have failed in the world and theHereafter; and they have no helpers.
3/23 Hast thou not seen how those who have received a portion ofthe Scripture invoke the Scripture of Allah (in their disputes) that it mayjudge between them; then a faction of them turn away, being opposed (toit)?
3/24 That is because they say: The Fire will not touch us save fora certain number of days. That which they used to invent hath deceived themregarding their religion.
3/25 How (will it be with them) when We have brought them alltogether to a Day of which there is no doubt, when every soul will be paidin full what it hath earned, and they will not be wronged.
3/26 Say: O Allah! Owner of Sovereignty! Thou givest sovereigntyunto whom Thou wilt, and Thou withdrawest sovereignty from whom Thou wilt.Thou exaltest whom Thou wilt, and Thou abasest whom Thou wilt. In Thy handis the good. Lo! Thou art Able to do all things.
3/27 Thou causest the night to pass into the day, and Thou causestthe day to pass into the night. And Thou bringest forth the living from thedead, and Thou bringest forth the dead from the living. And Thou givestsustenance to whom Thou choosest, without stint.
3/28 Let not the believers take disbelievers for their friends inpreference to believers. Whoso doeth that hath no connection with Allahunless (it be) that ye but guard yourselves against them, taking (as itwere) security. Allah biddeth you beware (only) of Himself. Unto Allah isthe journeying.
3/29 Say, (O Muhammad): Whether ye hide that which is in yourbreasts or reveal it, Allah knoweth it. He knoweth that which is in theheavens and that which is in the earth, and Allah is Able to do allthings.
3/30 On the Day when every soul will find itself confronted withall that it hath done of good and all that it hath done of evil (everysoul) will long that there might be a mighty space of distance between itand that (evil). Allah biddeth you beware of Him. And Allah is Full of Pityfor (His) bondmen.
3/31 Say, (O Muhammad, to mankind): If ye love Allah, follow me;Allah will love you and forgive you your sins. Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
3/32 Say: Obey Allah and the messenger. But if they turn away, lo!Allah loveth not the disbelievers (in His guidance).
3/33 Lo! Allah preferred Adam and Noah and the Family of Abrahamand the Family of 'Imran above (all His) creatures.
3/34 They were descendants one of another. Allah is Hearer,Knower.
3/35 (Remember) when the wife of 'Imran said: My Lord! I have vowedunto Thee that which is in my belly as a consecrated (offering). Accept itfrom me. Lo! Thou, only Thou, art the Hearer, the Knower!
3/36 And when she was delivered she said: My Lord! Lo! I amdelivered of a female - Allah knew best of what she was delivered - themale is not as the female; and lo! I have named her Mary, and lo! I craveThy protection for her and for her offspring from Satan the outcast.
3/37 And her Lord accepted her with full acceptance and vouchsafedto her a goodly growth; and made Zachariah her guardian. Whenever Zachariahwent into the sanctuary where she was, he found that she had food. He said:O Mary! Whence cometh unto thee this (food)? She answered: It is fromAllah. Allah giveth without stint to whom He will.
3/38 Then Zachariah prayed unto his Lord and said: My Lord! Bestowupon me of Thy bounty goodly offspring. Lo! Thou art the Hearer of Prayer.
3/39 And the angels called to him as he stood praying in thesanctuary: Allah giveth thee glad tidings of (a son whose name is) John,(who cometh) to confirm a word from Allah lordly, chaste, a prophet of therighteous.
3/40 He said: My Lord! How can I have a son when age hath overtakenme already and my wife is barren? (The angel) answered: So (it will be).Allah doeth what He will.
3/41 He said: My Lord! Appoint a token for me. (The angel) said:The token unto thee (shall be) that thou shalt not speak unto mankind threedays except by signs. Remember thy Lord much, and praise (Him) in the earlyhours of night and morning.
3/42 And when the angels said: O Mary! Lo! Allah hath chosen theeand made thee pure, and hath preferred thee above (all) the women ofcreation.
3/43 O Mary! Be obedient to thy Lord, prostrate thyself and bowwith those who bow (in worship).
3/44 This is of the tidings of things hidden. We reveal it untothee (Muhammad). Thou wast not present with them when they threw their pens(to know) which of them should be the guardian of Mary, nor wast thoupresent with them when they quarrelled (thereupon).
3/45 (And remember) when the angels said: O Mary! Lo! Allah giveththee glad tidings of a word from him, whose name is the Messiah, Jesus, sonof Mary, illustrious in the world and the Hereafter, and one of thosebrought near (unto Allah).
3/46 He will speak unto mankind in his cradle and in his manhood,and he is of the righteous.
3/47 She said: My Lord! How can I have a child when no mortal hathtouched me? He said: So (it will be). Allah createth what He will. If Hedecreeth a thing, He saith unto it only: Be! and it is.
3/48 And He will teach him the Scripture and wisdom, and the Torahand the Gospel,
3/49 And will make him a messenger unto the Children of Israel,(saying): Lo! I come unto you with a sign from your Lord. Lo! I fashion foryou out of clay the likeness of a bird, and I breathe into it and it is abird, by Allah's leave. I heal him who was born blind, and the leper, and Iraise the dead, by Allah's leave. And I announce unto you what ye eat andwhat ye store up in your houses. Lo! herein verily is a portent for you, ifye are to be believers.
3/50 And (I come) confirming that which was before me of the Torah,and to make lawful some of that which was forbidden unto you. I come untoyou with a sign from your Lord, so keep your duty to Allah and obey me.
3/51 Lo! Allah is my Lord and your Lord, so worship Him. That is astraight path.
3/52 But when Jesus became conscious of their disbelief, he cried:Who will be my helpers in the cause of Allah? The disciples said: We willbe Allah's helpers. We believe in Allah, and bear thou witness that we havesurrendered (unto Him).
3/53 Our Lord! We believe in that which Thou hast revealed and wefollow him whom Thou hast sent. Enrol us among those who witness (to thetruth).
3/54 And they (the disbelievers) schemed, and Allah schemed(against them): and Allah is the best of schemers.
3/55 (And remember) when Allah said: O Jesus! Lo! I am gatheringthee and causing thee to ascend unto Me, and am cleansing thee of those whodisbelieve and am setting those who follow thee above those who disbelieveuntil the Day of Resurrection. Then unto Me ye will (all) return, and Ishall judge between you as to that wherein ye used to differ.
3/56 As for those who disbelieve I shall chastise them with a heavychastisement in the world and the Hereafter; and they will have nohelpers.
3/57 And as for those who believe and do good works, He will paythem their wages in full. Allah loveth not wrong-doers.
3/58 This (which) We recite unto thee is a revelation and a wisereminder.
3/59 Lo! the likeness of Jesus with Allah is as the likeness ofAdam. He created him of dust, then He said unto him: Be! and he is.
3/60 (This is) the truth from thy Lord (O Muhammad), so be not thouof those who waver.
3/61 And whoso disputeth with thee concerning him, after theknowledge which hath come unto thee, say (unto him): Come! We will summonour sons and your sons, and our women and your women, and ourselves andyourselves, then we will pray humbly (to our Lord) and (solemnly) invokethe curse of Allah upon those who lie.
3/62 Lo! This verily is the true narrative. There is no Allah saveAllah, and lo! Allah, He verily is, is the Mighty, the Wise.
3/63 And if they turn away, then lo! Allah is Aware of (who are)the corrupters.
3/64 Say: O People of the Scripture! Come to an agreement betweenus and you: that we shall worship none but Allah, and that we shall ascribeno partner unto Him, and that none of us shall take others for lords besideAllah. And if they turn away, then say: Bear witness that we are they whohave surrendered (unto Him).
3/65 O People of the Scripture! Why will ye argue about Abraham,when the Torah and the Gospel were not revealed till after him? Have yethen no sense?
3/66 Lo! ye are those who argue about that whereof ye have someknowledge: Why then argue ye concerning that whereof ye have no knowledge?Allah knoweth. Ye know not.
3/67 Abraham was not a Jew, nor yet a Christian; but he was anupright man who had surrendered (to Allah), and he was not of theidolaters.
3/68 Lo! those of mankind who have the best claim to Abraham arethose who followed him, and this Prophet and those who believe (with him);and Allah is the Protecting Guardian of the believers.
3/69 A party of the People of the Scripture long to make you goastray; and they make none to go astray except themselves, but theyperceive not.
3/70 O People of the Scripture! Why disbelieve ye in therevelations of Allah, when ye (yourselves) bear witness (to their truth)?
3/71 O People of the Scripture! Why confound ye truth withfalsehood and knowingly conceal the truth?
3/72 And a party of the People of the Scripture say: Believe inthat which hath been revealed unto those who believe at the opening of theday, and disbelieve at the end thereof, in order that they may return;
3/73 And believe not save in one who followeth your religion - Say(O Muhammad): Lo! the guidance is Allah's Guidance - that anyone is giventhe like of that which was given unto you or that they may argue with youin the presence of their Lord. Say (O Muhammad): Lo! the bounty is inAllah's hand. He bestoweth it on whom He will. Allah is All-Embracing,All-Knowing.
3/74 He selecteth for His mercy whom He will. Allah is of InfiniteBounty.
3/75 Among the People of the Scripture there is he who, if thoutrust him with a weight of treasure, will return it to thee. And among themthere is he who, if thou trust him with a piece of gold, will not return itto thee unless thou keep standing over him. That is because they say: Wehave no duty to the Gentiles. They speak a lie concerning Allah knowingly.
3/76 Nay, but (the chosen of Allah is) he who fulfilleth his pledgeand wardeth off (evil); for lo! Allah loveth those who ward off (evil).
3/77 Lo! those who purchase a small gain at the cost of Allah'scovenant and their oaths, they have no portion in the Hereafter. Allah willneither speak to them nor look upon them on the Day of Resurrection, norwill He make them grow. Theirs will be a painful doom.
3/78 And lo! there is a party of them who distort the Scripturewith their tongues, that ye may think that what they say is from theScripture, when it is not from the Scripture. And they say: It is fromAllah, when it is not from Allah; and they speak a lie concerning Allahknowingly.
3/79 It is not (possible) for any human being unto whom Allah hadgiven the Scripture and wisdom and the prophethood that he shouldafterwards have said unto mankind: Be slaves of me instead of Allah; but(what he said was): Be ye faithful servants of the Lord by virtue of yourconstant teaching of the Scripture and of your constant study thereof.
3/80 And he commanded you not that ye should take the angels andthe prophets for lords. Would he command you to disbelieve after ye hadsurrendered (to Allah)?
3/81 When Allah made (His) covenant with the prophets, (He said):Behold that which I have given you of the Scripture and knowledge. Andafterward there will come unto you a messenger, confirming that which yepossess. Ye shall believe in him and ye shall help him. He said: Do yeagree, and will ye take up My burden (which I lay upon you) in this(matter)? They answered: We agree. He said: Then bear ye witness. I will bea witness with you.
3/82 Then whosoever after this shall turn away: they will bemiscreants.
3/83 Seek they other than the religion of Allah, when unto Himsubmitteth whosoever is in the heavens and the earth, willingly orunwillingly, and unto Him they will be returned.
3/84 Say (O Muhammad): We believe in Allah and that which isrevealed unto us and that which was revealed unto Abraham and Ishmael andIsaac and Jacob and the tribes, and that which was vouchsafed unto Mosesand Jesus and the prophets from their Lord. We make no distinction betweenany of them, and unto Him we have surrendered.
3/85 And whoso seeketh as religion other than the Surrender (toAllah) it will not be accepted from him, and he will be a loser in theHereafter.
3/86 How shall Allah guide a people who disbelieved after theirbelief and (after) they bore witness that the messenger is true and afterclear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) had come unto them. And Allah guidethnot wrongdoing folk.
3/87 As for such, their guerdon is that on them rests the curse ofAllah and of angels and of men combined.
3/88 They will abide therein. Their doom will not be lightened,neither will they be reprieved;
3/89 Save those who afterward repent and do right. Lo! Allah isForgiving, Merciful.
3/90 Lo! those who disbelieve after their (profession of) belief,and afterward grow violent in disbelief: their repentance will not beaccepted. And such are those who are astray.
3/91 Lo! those who disbelieve, and die in disbelief, the (whole)earth full of gold would not be accepted from such an one if it wereoffered as a ransom (for his soul). Theirs will be a painful doom and theywill have no helpers.
3/92 Ye will not attain unto piety until ye spend of that which yelove. And whatsoever ye spend, Allah is Aware thereof.
3/93 All food was lawful unto the Children of Israel, save thatwhich Israel forbade himself, (in days) before the Torah was revealed. Say:Produce the Torah and read it (unto us) if ye are truthful.
3/94 And whoever shall invent a falsehood after that concerningAllah, such will be wrong-doers.
3/95 Say: Allah speaketh truth. So follow the religion of Abraham,the upright. He was not of the idolaters.
3/96 Lo! the first Sanctuary appointed for mankind was that atBecca, a blessed place, a guidance to the peoples;
3/97 Wherein are plain memorials (of Allah's guidance); the placewhere Abraham stood up to pray; and whosoever entereth it is safe. Andpilgrimage to the House is a duty unto Allah for mankind, for him who canfind a way thither. As for him who disbelieveth, (let him know that) lo!Allah is Independent of (all) creatures.
3/98 Say: O People of the Scripture! Why disbelieve ye in therevelations of Allah, when Allah (Himself) is Witness of what ye do?
3/99 Say: O People of the Scripture! Why drive ye back believersfrom the way of Allah, seeking to make it crooked, when ye are witnesses(to Allah's guidance)? Allah is not unaware of what ye do.
3/100 O ye who believe! If ye obey a party of those who havereceived the Scripture they will make you disbelievers after your belief.
3/101 How can ye disbelieve, when it is ye unto whom Allah'srevelations are recited, and His messenger is in your midst? He who holdethfast to Allah, he indeed is guided unto a right path.
3/102 O ye who believe! Observe your duty to Allah with rightobservance, and die not save as those who have surrendered (unto Him)
3/103 And hold fast, all of you together, to the cable of Allah, anddo not separate. And remember Allah's favour unto you: How ye were enemiesand He made friendship between your hearts so that ye became as brothers byHis grace; and (how) ye were upon the brink of an abyss of fire, and He didsave you from it. Thus Allah maketh clear His revelations unto you, thathaply ye may be guided,
3/104 And there may spring from you a nation who invite to goodness,and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency. Such are they who aresuccessful.
3/105 And be ye not as those who separated and disputed after theclear proofs had come unto them. For such there is an awful doom,
3/106 On the Day when (some) faces will be whitened and (some) faceswill be blackened; and as for those whose faces have been blackened, itwill be said unto them: Disbelieved ye after your (profession of) belief?Then taste the punishment for that ye disbelieved.
3/107 And as for those whose faces have been whitened, in the mercyof Allah they dwell for ever.
3/108 These are revelations of Allah. We recite them unto thee intruth. Allah willeth no injustice to (His) creatures.
3/109 Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth; and unto Allah all things are returned.
3/110 Ye are the best community that hath been raised up formankind. Ye enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency; and ye believe inAllah. And if the People of the Scripture had believed it had been betterfor them. Some of them are believers; but most of them are evil-livers.
3/111 They will not harm you save a trifling hurt, and if they fightagainst you they will turn and flee. And afterward they will not behelped.
3/112 Ignominy shall be their portion wheresoever they are foundsave (where they grasp) a rope from Allah and a rope from men. They haveincurred anger from their Lord, and wretchedness is laid upon them. That isbecause they used to disbelieve the revelations of Allah, and slew theprophets wrongfully. That is because they were rebellious and used totransgress.
3/113 They are not all alike. Of the People of the Scripture thereis a staunch community who recite the revelations of Allah in the nightseason, falling prostrate (before Him).
3/114 They believe in Allah and the Last Day, and enjoin rightconduct and forbid indecency, and vie one with another in good works. Theseare of the righteous.
3/115 And whatever good they do, they will not be denied the meedthereof. Allah is Aware of those who ward off (evil).
3/116 Lo! the riches and the progeny of those who disbelieve willnot avail them aught against Allah; and such are rightful owners of theFire. They will abide therein.
3/117 The likeness of that which they spend in this life of theworld is as the likeness of a biting, icy wind which smiteth the harvest ofa people who have wronged themselves, and devastateth it. Allah wrongedthem not, but they do wrong themselves.
3/118 O ye who believe! Take not for intimates others than your ownfolk, who would spare no pains to ruin you; they love to hamper you. Hatredis revealed by (the utterance of) their mouths, but that which theirbreasts hide is greater. We have made plain for you the revelations if yewill understand.
3/119 Lo! ye are those who love them though they love you not, andye believe in all the Scripture. When they fall in with you they say: Webelieve; but when they go apart they bite their finger-tips at you, forrage. Say: Perish in your rage! Lo! Allah is Aware of what is hidden in(your) breasts.
3/120 If a lucky chance befall you, it is evil unto them, and ifdisaster strike you they rejoice thereat. But if ye persevere and keep fromevil their guile will never harm you. Lo! Allah is Surrounding what theydo.
3/121 And when thou settedst forth at daybreak from thy housefolk toassign to the believers their positions for the battle, Allah was Hearer,Knower.
3/122 When two parties of you almost fell away, and Allah was theirProtecting Friend. In Allah let believers put their trust.
3/123 Allah had already given you the victory at Badr, when ye werecontemptible. So observe your duty to Allah in order that ye may bethankful.
3/124 When thou didst say unto the believers: Is it not sufficientfor you that your Lord should support you with three thousand angels sentdown (to your help)?
3/125 Nay, but if ye persevere, and keep from evil, and (the enemy)attack you suddenly, your Lord will help you with five thousand angelssweeping on.
3/126 Allah ordained this only as a message of good cheer for you,and that thereby your hearts might be at rest - Victory cometh only fromAllah, the Mighty, the Wise -
3/127 That He may cut off a part of those who disbelieve, oroverwhelm them so that they retire, frustrated.
3/128 It is no concern at all of thee (Muhammad) whether He relenttoward them or punish them; for they are evil-doers.
3/129 Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth. He forgiveth whom He will, and punisheth whomHe will. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
3/130 O ye who believe! Devour not usury, doubling and quadrupling(the sum lent). Observe your duty to Allah, that ye may be successful.
3/131 And ward off (from yourselves) the Fire prepared fordisbelievers.
3/132 And obey Allah and the messenger, that ye may find mercy.
3/133 And vie one with another for forgiveness from your Lord, andfor a paradise as wide as are the heavens and the earth, prepared for thosewho ward off (evil);
3/134 Those who spend (of that which Allah hath given them) in easeand in adversity, those who control their wrath and are forgiving towardmankind; Allah loveth the good;
3/135 And those who, when they do an evil thing or wrong themselves,remember Allah and implore forgiveness for their sins - Who forgiveth sinssave Allah only? - and will not knowingly repeat (the wrong) they did.
3/136 The reward of such will be forgiveness from their Lord, andGardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever - abountiful reward for workers!
3/137 Systems have passed away before you. Do but travel in the landand see the nature of the consequence for those who did deny (themessengers).
3/138 This is a declaration for mankind, a guidance and anadmonition unto those who ward off (evil)
3/139 Faint not nor grieve, for ye will overcome them if ye are(indeed) believers.
3/140 If ye have received a blow, the (disbelieving) people havereceived a blow the like thereof. These are (only) the vicissitudes whichWe cause to follow one another for mankind, to the end that Allah may knowthose who believe and may choose witnesses from among you; and Allah lovethnot wrong-doers.
3/141 And that Allah may prove those who believe, and may blight thedisbelievers.
3/142 Or deemed ye that ye would enter paradise while yet Allahknoweth not those of you who really strive, nor knoweth those (of you) whoare steadfast?
3/143 And verily ye used to wish for death before ye met it (in thefield). Now ye have seen it with your eyes!
3/144 Muhammad is but a messenger, messengers (the like of whom)have passed away before him. Will it be that, when he dieth or is slain, yewill turn back on your heels? He who turneth back on his heels doth no hurtto Allah, and Allah will reward the thankful.
3/145 No soul can ever die except by Allah's leave and at a termappointed. Whoso desireth the reward of the world, We bestow on himthereof; and whoso desireth the reward of the Hereafter, We bestow on himthereof. We shall reward the thankful.
3/146 And with how many a prophet have there been a number ofdevoted men who fought (beside him). They quailed not for aught that befellthem in the way of Allah, nor did they weaken, nor were they brought low.Allah loveth the steadfast.
3/147 Their cry was only that they said: Our Lord! forgive us forour sins and wasted efforts, make our foothold sure, and give us victoryover the disbelieving folk.
3/148 So Allah gave them the reward of the world and the good rewardof the Hereafter. Allah loveth those whose deeds are good.
3/149 O ye who believe! if ye obey those who disbelieve, they willmake you turn back on your heels, and ye turn back as losers.
3/150 But Allah is your Protector, and He is the Best of Helpers.
3/151 We shall cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelievebecause they ascribe unto Allah partners, for which no warrant hath beenrevealed. Their habitation is the Fire, and hapless the abode of thewrong-doers.
3/152 Allah verily made good His promise unto you when ye routedthem by His leave, until (the moment) when your courage failed you, and yedisagreed about the order and ye disobeyed, after He had shown you that forwhich ye long. Some of you desired the world, and some of you desired theHereafter. Therefore He made you flee from them, that He might try you. Yetnow He hath forgiven you. Allah is a Lord of Kindness to believers.
3/153 When ye climbed (the hill) and paid no heed to anyone, whilethe messenger, in your rear, was calling you (to fight). Therefor Herewarded you grief for (his) grief, that (He might teach) you not to sorroweither for that which ye missed or for that which befell you. Allah isInformed of what ye do.
3/154 Then, after grief, He sent down security for you. As slumberdid it overcome a party of you, while (the other) party, who were anxiouson their own account, thought wrongly of Allah, the thought of ignorance.They said: Have we any part in the cause? Say (O Muhammad): The causebelongeth wholly to Allah. They hide within themselves (a thought) whichthey reveal not unto thee, saying: Had we had any part in the cause weshould not have been slain here. Say: Even though ye had been in yourhouses, those appointed to be slain would have gone forth to the placeswhere they were to lie. (All this hath been) in order that Allah might trywhat is in your breasts and prove what is in your hearts. Allah is Aware ofwhat is hidden in the breasts (of men).
3/155 Lo! those of you who turned back on the day when the two hostsmet, Satan alone it was who caused them to backslide, because of some ofthat which they have earned. Now Allah hath forgiven them. Lo! Allah isForgiving, Clement.
3/156 O ye who believe! Be not as those who disbelieved and said oftheir brethren who went abroad in the land or were fighting in the field:If they had been (here) with us they would not have died or been killed:that Allah may make it anguish in their hearts. Allah giveth life andcauseth death; and Allah is Seer of what ye do.
3/157 And what though ye be slain in Allah's way or die therein?Surely pardon from Allah and mercy are better than all that they amass.
3/158 What though ye be slain or die, when unto Allah ye aregathered?
3/159 It was by the mercy of Allah that thou wast lenient with them(O Muhammad), for if thou hadst been stern and fierce of heart they wouldhave dispersed from round about thee. So pardon them and ask forgivenessfor them and consult with them upon the conduct of affairs. And when thouart resolved, then put thy trust in Allah. Lo! Allah loveth those who puttheir trust (in Him).
3/160 If Allah is your helper none can overcome you, and if Hewithdraw His help from you, who is there who can help you after Him? InAllah let believers put their trust.
3/161 It is not for any prophet to embezzle. Whoso embezzleth willbring what he embezzled with him on the Day of Resurrection. Then everysoul will be paid in full what it hath earned; and they will not bewronged.
3/162 Is one who followeth the pleasure of Allah as one who hathearned condemnation from Allah, whose habitation is the Fire, a haplessjourney's end?
3/163 There are degrees (of grace and reprobation) with Allah, andAllah is Seer of what they do.
3/164 Allah verily hath shown grace to the believers by sending untothem a messenger of their own who reciteth unto them His revelations, andcauseth them to grow, and teacheth them the Scripture and wisdom; althoughbefore (he came to them) they were in flagrant error.
3/165 And was it so, when a disaster smote you, though ye hadsmitten (them with a disaster) twice (as great), that ye said: How is this?Say (unto them, O Muhammad): It is from yourselves. Lo! Allah is Able to doall things.
3/166 That which befell you, on the day when the two armies met, wasby permission of Allah; that He might know the true believers;
3/167 And that He might know the hypocrites, unto whom it was said:Come, fight in the way of Allah, or defend yourselves. They answered: If weknew aught of fighting we would follow you. On that day they were nearerdisbelief than faith. They utter with their mouths a thing  which is not intheir hearts. Allah is Best Aware of what they hide.
3/168 Those who, while they sat at home, said of their brethren (whowere fighting for the cause of Allah): If they had been guided by us theywould not have been slain. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Then avert deathfrom yourselves if ye are truthful.
3/169 Think not of those, who are slain in the way of Allah, asdead. Nay, they are living. With their Lord they have provision.
3/170 Jubilant (are they) because of that which Allah hath bestowedupon them of His bounty, rejoicing for the sake of those who have notjoined them but are left behind: That there shall no fear come upon themneither shall they grieve.
3/171 They rejoice because of favour from Allah and kindness, andthat Allah wasteth not the wage of the believers.
3/172 As for those who heard the call of Allah and His messengerafter the harm befell them (in the fight); for such of them as do right andward off (evil), there is great reward.
3/173 Those unto whom men said: Lo! the people have gathered againstyou, therefor fear them. (The threat of danger) but increased the faith ofthem and they cried: Allah is Sufficient for us! Most Excellent is He inWhom we trust!
3/174 So they returned with grace and favour from Allah, and no harmtouched them. They followed the good pleasure of Allah, and Allah is ofInfinite Bounty.
3/175 It is only the devil who would make (men) fear his partisans.Fear them not; fear Me, if ye are true believers.
3/176 Let not their conduct grieve thee, who run easily todisbelief, for lo! they injure Allah not at all. It is Allah's Will toassign them no portion in the Hereafter, and theirs will be an awful doom.
3/177 Those who purchase disbelief at the price of faith harm Allahnot at all, but theirs will be a painful doom.
3/178 And let not those who disbelieve imagine that the rein We givethem bodeth good unto their souls. We only give them rein that they maygrow in sinfulness. And theirs will be a shameful doom.
3/179 It is not (the purpose) of Allah to leave you in your presentstate till He shall separate the wicked from the good. And it is not (thepurpose of) Allah to let you know the Unseen. But Allah chooseth of Hismessengers whom He will, (to receive knowledge thereof). So believe inAllah and His messengers. If ye believe and ward off (evil), yours will bea vast reward.
3/180 And let not those who hoard up that which Allah hath bestowedupon them of His bounty think that it is better for them. Nay, it is worsefor them. That which they hoard will be their collar on the Day ofResurrection. Allah's is the heritage of the heavens and the earth, andAllah is Informed of what ye do.
3/181 Verily Allah heard the saying of those who said, (when askedfor contributions to the war): "Allah, forsooth, is poor, and we are rich!"We shall record their saying with their slaying of the prophets wrongfullyand We shall say: Taste ye the punishment of burning!
3/182 This is on account of that which your own hands have sentbefore (you to the judgment). Allah is no oppressor of (His) bondmen.
3/183 (The same are) those who say: Lo! Allah hath charged us thatwe believe not in any messenger until he bring us an offering which fire(from heaven) shall devour. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Messengers cameunto you before me with miracles, and with that (very miracle) which yedescribe. Why then did ye slay them? (Answer that) if ye are truthful!
3/184 And if they deny thee, even so did they deny messengers whowere before thee, who came with miracles and with the Psalms and with theScripture giving light.
3/185 Every soul will taste of death. And ye will be paid on the Dayof Resurrection only that which ye have fairly earned. Whoso is removedfrom the Fire and is made to enter paradise, he indeed is triumphant. Thelife of this world is but comfort of illusion.
3/186 Assuredly ye will be tried in your property and in yourpersons, and ye will hear much wrong from those who were given theScripture before you, and from the idolaters. But if ye persevere and wardoff (evil), then that is of the steadfast heart of things.
3/187 And (remember) when Allah laid a charge on those who hadreceived the Scripture (He said): Ye are to expound it to mankind and notto hide it. But they flung it behind their backs and bought thereby alittle gain. Verily evil is that which they have gained thereby.
3/188 Think not that those who exult in what they have given, andlove to be praised for what they have not done - Think not, they are insafety from the doom. A painful doom is theirs.
3/189 Unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and theearth. Allah is Able to do all things.
3/190 Lo! In the creation of the heavens and the earth and (in) thedifference of night and day are tokens (of His Sovereignty) for men ofunderstanding,
3/191 Such as remember Allah, standing, sitting, and reclining, andconsider the creation of the heavens and the earth, (and say): Our Lord!Thou createdst not this in vain. Glory be to Thee! Preserve us from thedoom of Fire.
3/192 Our Lord! Whom Thou causest to enter the Fire: him indeed Thouhast confounded. For evil-doers there will be no helpers.
3/193 Our Lord! Lo! we have heard a crier calling unto Faith:"Believe ye in your Lord!" So we believed. Our Lord! Therefor forgive usour sins, and remit from us our evil deeds, and make us die the death ofthe righteous.
3/194 Our Lord! And give us that which Thou hast promised to us byThy messengers. Confound us not upon the Day of Resurrection. Lo! Thoubreakest not the tryst.
3/195 And their Lord hath heard them (and He saith): Lo! I suffernot the work of any worker, male or female, to be lost. Ye proceed one fromanother. So those who fled and were driven forth from their homes andsuffered damage for My cause, and fought and were slain, verily I shallremit their evil deeds from them and verily I shall bring them into Gardensunderneath which rivers flow - A reward from Allah. And with Allah is thefairest of rewards.
3/196 Let not the vicissitude (of the success) of those whodisbelieve, in the land, deceive thee (O Muhammad).
3/197 It is but a brief comfort. And afterward their habitation willbe hell, an ill abode.
3/198 But those who keep their duty to their Lord, for them areGardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will be safe for ever. Agift of welcome from their Lord. That which Allah hath in store is betterfor the righteous.
3/199 And lo! of the People of the Scripture there are some whobelieve in Allah and that which is revealed unto you and that which wasrevealed unto them, humbling themselves before Allah. They purchase not atrifling gain at the price of the revelations of Allah. Verily their rewardis with their Lord. Lo! Allah is swift to take account.
3/200 O ye who believe! Endure, outdo all others in endurance, beready, and observe your duty to Allah, in order that ye may succeed.
