7/1 Alif. Lam. Mim. Sad.
7/2 (It is) a Scripture that is revealed unto thee (Muhammad) - solet there be no heaviness in thy heart therefrom - that thou mayst warnthereby, and (it is) a Reminder unto believers.
7/3 (Saying): Follow that which is sent down unto you from yourLord, and follow no protecting friends beside Him. Little do ye recollect!
7/4 How many a township have We destroyed! As a raid by night, orwhile they slept at noon, Our terror came unto them.
7/5 No plea had they, when Our terror came unto them, save thatthey said: Lo! We were wrong-doers.
7/6 Then verily We shall question those unto whom (Our message)hath been sent, and verily We shall question the messengers.
7/7 Then verily We shall narrate unto them (the event) withknowledge, for We were not absent (when it came to pass).
7/8 The weighing on that day is the true (weighing). As for thosewhose scale is heavy, they are the successful.
7/9 And as for those whose scale is light: those are they who losetheir souls because they used to wrong Our revelations.
7/10 And We have given you (mankind) power in the earth, andappointed for you therein livelihoods. Little give ye thanks!
7/11 And We created you, then fashioned you, then told the angels:Fall ye prostrate before Adam! And they fell prostrate, all save Iblis, whowas not of those who make prostration.
7/12 He said: What hindered thee that thou didst not fall prostratewhen I bade thee? (Iblis) said: I am better than him. Thou createdst me offire while him Thou didst create of mud.
7/13 He said: Then go down hence! It is not for thee to show pridehere, so go forth! Lo! thou art of those degraded.
7/14 He said: Reprieve me till the day when they are raised (fromthe dead).
7/15 He said: Lo! thou art of those reprieved.
7/16 He said: Now, because Thou hast sent me astray, verily I shalllurk in ambush for them on Thy Right Path.
7/17 Then I shall come upon them from before them and from behindthem and from their right hands and from their left hands, and Thou wiltnot find most of them beholden (unto Thee).
7/18 He said: Go forth from hence, degraded, banished. As for suchof them as follow thee, surely I will fill hell with all of you.
7/19 And (unto man): O Adam! Dwell thou and thy wife in the Gardenand eat from whence ye will, but come not nigh this tree lest ye becomewrong-doers.
7/20 Then Satan whispered to them that he might manifest unto themthat which was hidden from them of their shame, and he said: Your Lordforbade you from this tree only lest ye should become angels or become ofthe immortals.
7/21 And he swore unto them (saying): Lo! I am a sincere adviserunto you.
7/22 Thus did he lead them on with guile. And when they tasted ofthe tree their shame was manifest to them and they began to hide (byheaping) on themselves some of the leaves of the Garden. And their Lordcalled them, (saying): Did I not forbid you from that tree and tell you:Lo! Satan is an open enemy to you?
7/23 They said: Our Lord! We have wronged ourselves. If thouforgive us not and have not mercy on us, surely we are of the lost!
7/24 He said: Go down (from hence), one of you a foe unto theother. There will be for you on earth a habitation and provision for awhile.
7/25 He said: There shall ye live, and there shall ye die, andthence shall ye be brought forth.
7/26 O Children of Adam! We have revealed unto you raiment toconceal your shame, and splendid vesture, but the raiment of restraint fromevil, that is best. This is of the revelations of Allah, that they mayremember.
7/27 O Children of Adam! Let not Satan seduce you as he caused your(first) parents to go forth from the Garden and tore off from them theirrobe (of innocence) that he might manifest their shame to them. Lo! heseeth you, he and his tribe, from whence ye see him not. Lo! We have madethe devils protecting friends for those who believe not.
7/28 And when they do some lewdness they say: We found our fathersdoing it and Allah hath enjoined it on us. Say: Allah, verily, enjoinethnot lewdness. Tell ye concerning Allah that which ye know not?
7/29 Say: My Lord enjoineth justice. And set your faces upright(toward Him) at every place of worship and call upon Him, making religionpure for Him (only). As He brought you into being, so return ye (untoHim).
7/30 A party hath He led aright, while error hath just hold over(another) party, for lo! they choose the devils for protecting supportersinstead of Allah and deem that they are rightly guided.
7/31 O Children of Adam! Look to your adornment at every place ofworship, and eat and drink, but be not prodigal. Lo! He loveth not theprodigals.
7/32 Say: Who hath forbidden the adornment of Allah which He hathbrought forth for His bondmen, and the good things of His providing? Say:Such, on the Day of Resurrection, will be only for those who believedduring the life of the world. Thus do we detail Our revelations for peoplewho have knowledge.
7/33 Say: My Lord forbiddeth only indecencies, such of them as areapparent and such as are within, and sin and wrongful oppression, and thatye associate with Allah that for which no warrant hath been revealed, andthat ye tell concerning Allah that which ye know not.
7/34 And every nation hath its term, and when its term cometh, theycannot put it off an hour nor yet advance (it).
7/35 O Children of Adam! When messengers of your own come unto youwho narrate unto you My revelations, then whosoever refraineth from eviland amendeth - there shall no fear come upon them neither shall theygrieve.
7/36 But they who deny Our revelations and scorn them - each arerightful owners of the Fire; they will abide therein.
7/37 Who doeth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie concerningAllah or denieth Our tokens. (For such) their appointed portion of the Book(of destiny) reacheth them till, when Our messengers come to gather them,they say: Where (now) is that to which ye cried beside Allah? They say:They have departed from us. And they testify against themselves that theywere disbelievers.
7/38 He saith: Enter into the Fire among nations of the jinn andhumankind who passed away before you. Every time a nation entereth, itcurseth its sister (nation) till, when they have all been made to followone another thither, the last of them saith unto the first of them: OurLord! These led us astray, so give them double torment of the Fire. Hesaith: For each one there is double (torment), but ye know not.
7/39 And the first of them saith unto the last of them: Ye were nowhit better than us, so taste the doom for what ye used to earn.
7/40 Lo! they who deny Our revelations and scorn them, for them thegates of heaven will nor be opened not will they enter the Garden until thecamel goeth through the needle's eye. Thus do We requite the guilty.
7/41 Theirs will be a bed of hell, and over them coverings (ofhell). Thus do We requite wrong-doers.
7/42 But (as for) those who believe and do good works - We tax notany soul beyond its scope - Such are rightful owners of the Garden. Theyabide therein.
7/43 And We remove whatever rancour may be in their hearts. Riversflow beneath them. And they say: The praise to Allah, Who hath guided us tothis. We could not truly have been led aright if Allah had not guided us.Verily the messengers of our Lord did bring the Truth. And it is cried untothem: This is the Garden. Ye inherit it for what ye used to do.
7/44 And the dwellers of the Garden cry unto the dwellers of theFire: We have found that which our Lord promised us (to be) the Truth. Haveye (too) found that which your Lord promised the Truth? They say: Yea,verily. And a crier in between them crieth: The curse of Allah is onevil-doers,
7/45 Who debar (men) from the path of Allah and would have itcrooked, and who are disbelievers in the Last Day.
7/46 Between them is a veil. And on the Heights are men who knowthem all by their marks. And they call unto the dwellers of the Garden:Peace be unto you! They enter it not although they hope (to enter).
7/47 And when their eyes are turned toward the dwellers of theFire, they say: Our Lord! Place us not with the wrong-doing folk.
7/48 And the dwellers on the Heights call unto men whom they knowby their marks, (saying): What did your multitude and that in which ye tookyour pride avail you?
7/49 Are these they of whom ye swore that Allah would not show themmercy? (Unto them it hath been said): Enter the Garden. No fear shall comeupon you nor is it ye who will grieve.
7/50 And the dwellers of the Fire cry out unto the dwellers of theGarden: Pour on us some water or some wherewith Allah hath provided you.They say: Lo! Allah hath forbidden both to disbelievers (in His guidance),
7/51 Who took their religion for a sport and pastime, and whom thelife of the world beguiled. So this day We have forgotten them even as theyforgot the meeting of this their Day and as they used to deny Our tokens.
7/52 Verily We have brought them a Scripture which We expoundedwith knowledge, a guidance and a mercy for a people who believe.
7/53 Await they aught save the fulfilment thereof? On the day whenthe fulfilment thereof cometh, those who were before forgetful thereof willsay: The messengers of our Lord did bring the Truth! Have we anyintercessors, that they may intercede for us? Or can we be returned (tolife on earth), that we may act otherwise than we used to act? They havelost their souls, and that which they devised hath failed them.
7/54 Lo! your Lord is Allah Who created the heavens and the earthin six Days, then mounted He the Throne. He covereth the night with theday, which is in haste to follow it, and hath made the sun and the moon andthe stars subservient by His command. His verily is all creation andcommandment. Blessed be Allah, the Lord of the Worlds!
7/55 (O mankind!) Call upon your Lord humbly and in secret. Lo! Heloveth not aggressors.
7/56 Work not confusion in the earth after the fair ordering(thereof). and call on Him in fear and hope. Lo! the mercy of Allah is nighunto the good.
7/57 And He it is Who sendeth the winds as tidings heralding Hismercy, till, when they bear a cloud heavy (with rain), We lead it to a deadland, and then cause water to descend thereon and thereby bring forthfruits of every kind. Thus bring We forth the dead. Haply ye may remember.
7/58 As for the good land, its vegetation cometh forth bypermission of its Lord; while as for that which is bad, only the uselesscometh forth (from it). Thus do We recount the tokens for people who givethanks.
7/59 We sent Noah (of old) unto his people, and he said: O mypeople! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him. Lo! I fear for you theretribution of an Awful Day.
7/60 The chieftains of his people said: Lo! we see thee surely inplain error.
7/61 He said: O my people! There is no error in me, but I am amessenger from the Lord of the Worlds.
7/62 I convey unto you the messages of my Lord and give goodcounsel unto you, and know from Allah that which ye know not.
7/63 Marvel ye that there should come unto you a Reminder from yourLord by means of a man among you, that he may warn you, and that ye maykeep from evil, and that haply ye may find mercy.
7/64 But they denied him, so We saved him and those with him in theship, and We drowned those who denied Our tokens. Lo! they were blindfolk.
7/65 And unto (the tribe of) A'ad (We sent) their brother, Hud. Hesaid: O my people! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him. Will ye notward off (evil)?
7/66 The chieftains of his people, who were disbelieving, said: Lo!we surely see thee in foolishness, and lo! we deem thee of the liars.
7/67 He said: O my people! There is no foolishness in me, but I ama messenger from the Lord of the Worlds.
7/68 I convey unto you the messages of my Lord and am for you atrue adviser.
7/69 Marvel ye that there should come unto you a Reminder from yourLord by means of a man among you, that he may warn you? Remember how Hemade you viceroys after Noah's folk, and gave you growth of stature.Remember (all) the bounties of your Lord, that haply ye may be successful.
7/70 They said: Hast come unto us that we should serve Allah alone,and forsake what our fathers worshipped? Then bring upon us that wherewiththou threatenest us if thou art of the truthful!
7/71 He said: Terror and wrath from your Lord have already fallenon you. Would ye wrangle with me over names which ye have named, ye andyour fathers, for which no warrant from Allah hath been revealed? Thenawait (the consequence), lo! I (also) am of those awaiting (it).
7/72 And We saved him and those with him by a mercy from Us, and Wecut the root of those who denied Our revelations and were not believers.
7/73 And to (the tribe of) Thamud (We sent) their brother Salih. Hesaid: O my people! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him. A wonderfrom your Lord hath come unto you. Lo! this is the camel of Allah, a tokenunto you; so let her feed in Allah's earth, and touch her not with hurtlest painful torment seize you.
7/74 And remember how He made you viceroys after A'ad and gave youstation in the earth. Ye choose castles in the plains and hew the mountainsinto dwellings. So remember (all) the bounties of Allah and do not evil,making mischief in the earth.
7/75 The chieftains of his people, who were scornful, said untothose whom they despised, unto such of them as believed: Know ye that Salihis one sent from his Lord? They said: Lo! In that wherewith he hath beensent we are believers.
7/76 Those who were scornful said: Lo! in that which ye believe weare disbelievers.
7/77 So they hamstrung the she-camel, and they flouted thecommandment of their Lord, and they said: O Salih! Bring upon us that thouthreatenest if thou art indeed of those sent (from Allah).
7/78 So the earthquake seized them, and morning found themprostrate in their dwelling-place.
7/79 And (Salih) turned from them and said: O my people! Idelivered my Lord's message unto you and gave you good advice, but ye lovenot good advisers.
7/80 And Lot! (Remember) when he said unto his folk: Will ye commitabomination such as no creature ever did before you?
7/81 Lo! ye come with lust unto men instead of women. Nay, but yeare wanton folk.
7/82 And the answer of his people was only that they said (one toanother): Turn them out of your township. They are folk, forsooth, who keeppure.
7/83 And We rescued him and his household, save his wife, who wasof those who stayed behind.
7/84 And We rained a rain upon them. See now the nature of theconsequence of evil-doers!
7/85 And unto Midian (We sent) their brother, Shu'eyb. He said: Omy people! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him. Lo! a clear proofhath come unto you from your Lord; so give full measure and full weight andwrong not mankind in their goods, and work not confusion in the earth afterthe fair ordering thereof. That will be better for you, if ye arebelievers.
7/86 Lurk not on every road to threaten (wayfarers), and to turnaway from Allah's path him who believeth in Him, and to seek to make itcrooked. And remember, when ye were but few, how He did multiply you. Andsee the nature of the consequence for the corrupters!
7/87 And if there is a party of you which believeth in thatwherewith I have been sent, and there is a party which believeth not, thenhave patience until Allah judge between us. He is the Best of all who dealin judgment.
7/88 The chieftains of his people, who were scornful, said: Surelywe will drive thee out, O Shu'eyb, and those who believe with thee, fromour township, unless ye return to our religion. He said: Even though wehate it?
7/89 We should have invented a lie against Allah if we returned toyour religion after Allah hath rescued us from it. It is not for us toreturn to it unless Allah our Lord should (so) will. Our Lord comprehendethall things in knowledge. In Allah do we put our trust. Our Lord! Decidewith truth between us and our folk, for Thou art the best of those who makedecision.
7/90 But the chieftains of his people, who were disbelieving, said:If ye follow Shu'eyb, then truly ye shall be the losers.
7/91 So the earthquake seized them and morning found them prostratein their dwelling-place.
7/92 Those who denied Shu'eyb became as though they had not dweltthere. Those who denied Shu'eyb, they were the losers.
7/93 So he turned from them and said: O my people! I delivered myLord's messages unto you and gave you good advice; then how can I sorrowfor a people that rejected (truth)?
7/94 And We sent no prophet unto any township but We did afflictits folk with tribulation and adversity that haply they might grow humble.
7/95 Then changed We the evil plight for good till they grewaffluent and said: Tribulation and distress did touch our fathers. Then Weseized them unawares, when they perceived not.
7/96 And if the people of the townships had believed and kept fromevil, surely We should have opened for them blessings from the sky and fromthe earth. But (unto every messenger) they gave the lie, and so We seizedthem on account of what they used to earn.
7/97 Are the people of the townships then secure from the coming ofOur wrath upon them as a night-raid while they sleep?
7/98 Or are the people of the townships then secure from the comingof Our wrath upon them in the daytime while they play?
7/99 Are they then secure from Allah's scheme? None deemeth himselfsecure from Allah's scheme save folk that perish.
7/100 Is it not an indication to those who inherit the land afterits people (who thus reaped the consequence of evil-doing) that, if Wewill, We can smite them for their sins and print upon their hearts so thatthey hear not?
7/101 Such were the townships. We relate some tidings of them untothee (Muhammad). Their messengers verily came unto them with clear proofs(of Allah's Sovereignty), but they could not believe because they hadbefore denied. Thus doth Allah print upon the hearts of disbelievers (thatthey hear not).
7/102 We found no (loyalty to any) covenant in most of them. Nay,most of them We found wrong-doers.
7/103 Then, after them, We sent Moses with our tokens unto Pharaohand his chiefs, but they repelled them. Now, see the nature of theconsequence for the corrupters!
7/104 Moses said: O Pharaoh! Lo! I am a messenger from the Lord ofthe Worlds,
7/105 Approved upon condition that I speak concerning Allah nothingbut the truth. I come unto you (lords of Egypt) with a clear proof fromyour Lord. So let the Children of Israel go with me.
7/106 (Pharaoh) said: If thou comest with a token, then produce it,if thou art of those who speak the truth.
7/107 Then he flung down his staff and lo! it was a serpentmanifest;
7/108 And he drew forth his hand (from his bosom), and lo! it waswhite for the beholders.
7/109 The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said: Lo! this is some knowingwizard,
7/110 Who would expel you from your land. Now what do ye advise?
7/111 They said (unto Pharaoh): Put him off (a while) - him and hisbrother - and send into the cities summoners,
7/112 To bring each knowing wizard unto thee.
7/113 And the wizards came to Pharaoh, saying: Surely there will bea reward for us if we are victors.
7/114 He answered: Yes, and surely ye shall be of those brought near(to me).
7/115 They said: O Moses! Either throw (first) or let us be thefirst throwers?
7/116 He said: Throw! And when they threw they cast a spell upon thepeople's eyes, and overawed them, and produced a mighty spell.
7/117 And We inspired Moses (saying): Throw thy staff! And lo! itswallowed up their lying show.
7/118 Thus was the Truth vindicated and that which they were doingwas made vain.
7/119 Thus were they there defeated and brought low.
7/120 And the wizards fell down prostrate,
7/121 Crying: We believe in the Lord of the Worlds,
7/122 The Lord of Moses and Aaron.
7/123 Pharaoh said: Ye believe in Him before I give you leave! Lo!this is the plot that ye have plotted in the city that ye may drive itspeople hence. But ye shall come to know!
7/124 Surely I shall have your hands and feet cut off upon alternatesides. Then I shall crucify you every one.
7/125 They said: Lo! We are about to return unto our Lord!
7/126 Thou takest vengeance on us only forasmuch as we believed thetokens of our Lord when they came unto us. Our Lord! Vouchsafe unto ussteadfastness and make us die as men who have surrendered (unto Thee).
7/127 The chiefs of Pharaoh's people said: (O King), wilt thousuffer Moses and his people to make mischief in the land, and flout theeand thy gods? He said: We will slay their sons and spare their women, forlo! we are in power over them.
7/128 And Moses said unto his people: Seek help in Allah and endure.Lo! the earth is Allah's. He giveth it for an inheritance to whom He will.And lo! the sequel is for those who keep their duty (unto Him).
7/129 They said: We suffered hurt before thou camest unto us, andsince thou hast come unto us. He said: It may be that your Lord is going todestroy your adversary and make you viceroys in the earth, that He may seehow ye behave.
7/130 And we straitened Pharaoh's folk with famine and dearth offruits, that peradventure they might heed.
7/131 But whenever good befell them, they said: This is ours; andwhenever evil smote them they ascribed it to the evil auspices of Moses andthose with him. Surely their evil auspice was only with Allah. But most ofthem knew not.
7/132 And they said: Whatever portent thou bringest wherewith tobewitch us, we shall not put faith in thee.
7/133 So We sent against them the flood and the locusts and thevermin and the frogs and the blood - a succession of clear signs. But theywere arrogant and became a guilty folk.
7/134 And when the terror fell on them they cried: O Moses! Pray forus unto thy Lord, because He hath a covenant with thee. If thou removestthe terror from us we verily will trust thee and will let the Children ofIsrael go with thee.
7/135 But when We did remove from them the terror for a term whichthey must reach, behold! they broke their covenant.
7/136 Therefore We took retribution from them; therefore We drownedthem in the sea: because they denied Our revelations and were heedless ofthem.
7/137 And We caused the folk who were despised to inherit theeastern parts of the land and the western parts thereof which We hadblessed. And the fair word of thy Lord was fulfilled for the Children ofIsrael because of their endurance; and We annihilated (all) that Pharaohand his folk had done and that they had contrived.
7/138 And We brought the Children of Israel across the sea, and theycame unto a people who were given up to idols which they had. They said: OMoses! Make for us a god even as they have gods. He said: Lo! ye are a folkwho know not.
7/139 Lo! as for these, their way will be destroyed and all thatthey are doing is in vain.
7/140 He said: Shall I seek for you a god other than Allah when Hehath favoured you above (all) creatures?
7/141 And (remember) when We did deliver you from Pharaoh's folk whowere afflicting you with dreadful torment, slaughtering your sons andsparing your women.  That was a tremendous trial from your Lord.
7/142 And when We did appoint for Moses thirty nights (of solitude),and added to them ten, and he completed the whole time appointed by hisLord of forty nights; and Moses said unto his brother, Aaron: Take my placeamong the people. Do right, and follow not the way of mischief-makers.
7/143 And when Moses came to Our appointed tryst and his Lord hadspoken unto him, he said: My Lord! Show me (Thy Self), that I may gaze uponThee. He said: Thou wilt not see Me, but gaze upon the mountain! If itstand still in its place, then thou wilt see Me. And when his Lord revealed(His) glory to the mountain He sent it crashing down. And Moses fell downsenseless. And when he woke he said: Glory unto Thee! I turn unto Theerepentant, and I am the first of (true) believers.
7/144 He said: O Moses! I have preferred thee above mankind by Mymessages and by My speaking (unto thee). So hold that which I have giventhee, and be among the thankful.
7/145 And We wrote for him, upon the tablets, the lesson to be drawnfrom all things and the explanation of all things, then (bade him): Hold itfast; and command thy people (saying): Take the better (course made clear)therein. I shall show thee the abode of evil-livers.
7/146 I shall turn away from My revelations those who magnifythemselves wrongfully in the earth, and if they see each token believe itnot, and if they see the way of righteousness choose it nor for (their)way, and if they see the way of error choose if for (their) way. That isbecause they deny Our revelations and are used to disregard them.
7/147 Those who deny Our revelations and the meeting of theHereafter, their works are fruitless. Are they requited aught save whatthey used to do?
7/148 And the folk of Moses, after (he left them), chose a calf (forworship), (made) out of their ornaments, of saffron hue, which gave alowing sound. Saw they not that it spake not unto them nor guided them toany way? They chose it, and became wrong-doers.
7/149 And when they feared the consequences thereof and saw thatthey had gone astray, they said: Unless our Lord have mercy on us andforgive us, we verily are of the lost.
7/150 And when Moses returned unto his people, angry and grieved, hesaid: Evil is that (course) which ye took after I had left you. Would yehasten on the judgment of your Lord? And he cast down the tablets, and heseized his brother by the head, dragging him toward him. He said: Son of mymother! Lo! the folk did judge me weak and almost killed me. Oh, make notmine enemies to triumph over me and place me not among the evil-doers.
7/151 He said: My Lord! Have mercy on me and on my brother; bring usinto Thy mercy, Thou the Most Merciful of all who show mercy.
7/152 Lo! Those who chose the calf (for worship), terror from theirLord and humiliation will come upon them in the life of the world. Thus doWe requite those who invent a lie.
7/153 But those who do ill-deeds and afterward repent and believe -lo! for them, afterward, Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
7/154 Then, when the anger of Moses abated, he took up the tablets,and in their inscription there was guidance and mercy for all those whofear their Lord.
7/155 And Moses chose of his people seventy men for Our appointedtryst and, when the trembling came on them, he said: My Lord! If Thou hadstwilled Thou hadst destroyed them long before, and me with them. Wilt thoudestroy us for that which the ignorant among us did? It is but Thy trial(of us). Thou sendest whom Thou wilt astray and guidest whom Thou wilt:Thou art our Protecting Friend, therefore forgive us and have mercy on us,Thou, the Best of all who show forgiveness.
7/156 And ordain for us in this world that which is good, and in theHereafter (that which is good), Lo! We have turned unto Thee. He said: Ismite with My punishment whom I will, and My mercy embraceth all things,therefore I shall ordain it for those who ward off (evil) and pay thepoor-due, and those who believe Our revelations;
7/157 Those who follow the messenger, the Prophet who can neitherread nor write, whom they will find described in the Torah and the Gospel(which are) with them. He will enjoin on them that which is right andforbid them that which is wrong. He will make lawful for them all goodthings and prohibit for them only the foul; and he will relieve them oftheir burden and the fetters that they used to wear. Then those who believein him, and honour him, and help him, and follow the light which is sentdown with him: they are the successful.
7/158 Say (O Muhammad): O mankind! Lo! I am the messenger of Allahto you all - (the messenger of) Him unto Whom belongeth the Sovereignty ofthe heavens and the earth. There is no Allah save Him. He quickeneth and Hegiveth death. So believe in Allah and His messenger, the Prophet who canneither read nor write, who believeth in Allah and in His Words, and followhim that haply ye may be led aright.
7/159 And of Moses' folk there is a community who lead with truthand establish justice therewith.
7/160 We divided them into twelve tribes, nations; and We inspiredMoses, when his people asked him for water, saying: Smite with thy staffthe rock! And there gushed forth therefrom twelve springs, so that eachtribe knew their drinking-place. And we caused the white cloud toovershadow them and sent down for them the manna and the quails (saying):Eat of the good things wherewith we have provided you. They wronged Us not,but they were wont to wrong themselves.
7/161 And when it was said unto them: Dwell in this township and eattherefrom whence ye will, and say "Repentance," and enter the gateprostrate; We shall forgive you your sins; We shall increase (reward) forthe right-doers.
7/162 But those of them who did wrong changed the word which hadbeen told them for another saying, and We sent down upon them wrath fromheaven for their wrongdoing.
7/163 Ask them (O Muhammad) of the township that was by the sea, howthey did break the Sabbath, how their big fish came unto them visibly upontheir Sabbath day and on a day when they did not keep Sabbath came they notunto them. Thus did We try them for that they were evil-livers.
7/164 And when a community among them said: Why preach ye to a folkwhom Allah is about to destroy or punish with an awful doom, they said: Inorder to be free from guilt before your Lord, and that haply they may wardoff (evil).
7/165 And when they forgot that whereof they had been reminded, Werescued those who forbade wrong, and visited those who did wrong withdreadful punishment because they were evil-livers.
7/166 So when they took pride in that which they had been forbidden,We said unto them: Be ye apes despised and loathed!
7/167 And (remember) when thy Lord proclaimed that He would raiseagainst them till the Day of Resurrection those who would lay on them acruel torment. Lo! verily thy Lord is swift in prosecution and lo! verilyHe is Forgiving, Merciful.
7/168 And We have sundered them in the earth as (separate) nations.Some of them are righteous, and some far from that. And We have tried themwith good things and evil things that haply they might return.
7/169 And a generation hath succeeded them who inherited thescriptures. They grasp the goods of this low life (as the price ofevil-doing) and say: It will be forgiven us. And if there came to them(again) the offer of the like, they would accept it (and would sin again).Hath not the covenant of the Scripture been taken on their behalf that theyshould not speak aught concerning Allah save the truth? And they havestudied that which is therein. And the abode of the Hereafter is better,for those who ward off (evil). Have ye then no sense?
7/170 And as for those who make (men) keep the Scripture, andestablish worship - lo! We squander not the wages of reformers.
7/171 And when We shook the Mount above them as it were a covering,and they supposed that it was going to fall upon them (and We said): Holdfast that which We have given you, and remember that which is therein, thatye may ward off (evil).
7/172 And (remember) when thy Lord brought forth from the Childrenof Adam, from their reins, their seed, and made them testify of themselves,(saying): Am I not your Lord? They said: Yea, verily. We testify. (Thatwas) lest ye should say at the Day of Resurrection: Lo! of this we wereunaware;
7/173 Or lest ye should say: (It is) only (that) our fathersascribed partners to Allah of old and we were (their) seed after them. WiltThou destroy us on account of that which those who follow falsehood did?
7/174 Thus we detail the revelations, that haply they may return.
7/175 Recite unto them the tale of him to whom We gave Ourrevelations, but he sloughed them off, so Satan overtook him and he becameof those who lead astray.
7/176 And had We willed We could have raised him by their means, buthe clung to the earth and followed his own lust. Therefor his likeness isas the likeness of a dog: if thou attackest him he panteth with his tongueout, and if thou leavest him he panteth with his tongue out. Such is thelikeness of the people who deny Our revelations. Narrate unto them thehistory (of the men of old), that haply they may take thought.
7/177 Evil as an example are the folk who denied Our revelations,and were wont to wrong themselves.
7/178 He whom Allah leadeth, he indeed is led aright, while he whomAllah sendeth astray - they indeed are losers.
7/179 Already have We urged unto hell many of the jinn andhumankind, having hearts wherewith they understand not, and having eyeswherewith they see not, and having ears wherewith they hear not. These areas the cattle - nay, but they are worse! These are the neglectful.
7/180 Allah's are the fairest names. Invoke Him by them. And leavethe company of those who blaspheme His names. They will be requited whatthey do.
7/181 And of those whom We created there is a nation who guide withthe Truth and establish justice therewith.
7/182 And those who deny Our revelations - step by step We lead themon from whence they know not.
7/183 I give them rein (for) lo! My scheme is strong.
7/184 Have they not bethought them (that) there is no madness intheir comrade? He is but a plain warner.
7/185 Have they not considered the dominion of the heavens and theearth, and what things Allah hath created, and that it may be that theirown term draweth nigh? In what fact after this will they believe?
7/186 Those whom Allah sendeth astray, there is no guide for them.He leaveth them to wander blindly on in their contumacy.
7/187 They ask thee of the (destined) Hour, when will it come toport. Say: Knowledge thereof is with my Lord only. He alone will manifestit at its proper time. It is heavy in the heavens and the earth. It comethnot to you save unawares. They question thee as if thou couldst be wellinformed thereof. Say: Knowledge thereof is with Allah only, but most ofmankind know not.
7/188 Say: For myself I have no power to benefit, nor power to hurt,save that which Allah willeth. Had I knowledge of the Unseen, I should haveabundance of wealth, and adversity would not touch me. I am but a warner,and a bearer of good tidings unto folk who believe.
7/189 He it is Who did create you from a single soul, and therefromdid make his mate that he might take rest in her. And when he covered hershe bore a light burden, and she passed (unnoticed) with it, but when itbecame heavy they cried unto Allah, their Lord, saying: If thou givest untous aright we shall be of the thankful.
7/190 But when He gave unto them aright, they ascribed unto Himpartners in respect of that which He had given them. High is He Exaltedabove all that they associate (with Him).
7/191 Attribute they as partners to Allah those who created naught,but are themselves created,
7/192 And cannot give them help, nor can they help themselves?
7/193 And if ye call them to the Guidance, they follow you not.Whether ye call them or are silent is all one for you.
7/194 Lo! those on whom ye call beside Allah are slaves like untoyou. Call on them now, and let them answer you, if ye are truthful!
7/195 Have they feet wherewith they walk, or have they handswherewith they hold, or have they eyes wherewith they see, or have theyears wherewith they hear? Say: Call upon your (so-called) partners (ofAllah), and then contrive against me, spare me not!
7/196 Lo! my Protecting Friend is Allah Who revealeth the Scripture.He befriendeth the righteous.
7/197 They on whom ye call beside Him have no power to help you, norcan they help you, nor can they help themselves.
7/198 And if ye (Muslims) call them to the guidance they hear not;and thou (Muhammad) seest them looking toward thee, but they see not.
7/199 Keep to forgiveness (O Muhammad), and enjoin kindness, andturn away from the ignorant.
7/200 And if a slander from the devil wound thee, then seek refugein Allah. Lo! He is Hearer, Knower.
7/201 Lo! those who ward off (evil), when a glamour from the deviltroubleth them, they do but remember (Allah's Guidance) and behold themseers!
7/202 Their brethren plunge them further into error and cease not.
7/203 And when thou bringest not a verse for them they say: Why hastthou not chosen it? Say: I follow only that which is inspired in me from myLord. This (Qur'an) is insight from your Lord, and a guidance and a mercyfor a people that believe.
7/204 And when the Qur'an is recited, give ear to it and pay heed,that ye may obtain mercy.
7/205 And do thou (O Muhammad) remember thy Lord within thyselfhumbly and with awe, below thy breath, at morn and evening. And be not thouof the neglectful.
7/206 Lo! those who are with thy Lord are not too proud to do Himservice, but they praise Him and prostrate before Him.
