6/1 Praise be to Allah, Who hath created the heavens and theearth, and hath appointed darkness and light. Yet those who disbelieveascribe rivals unto their Lord.
6/2 He it is Who hath created you from clay, and hath decreed aterm for you. A term is fixed with Him. Yet still ye doubt!
6/3 He is Allah in the heavens and in the earth. He knoweth bothyour secret and your utterance, and He knoweth what ye earn.
6/4 Never came there unto them a revelation of the revelations ofAllah but they did turn away from it.
6/5 And they denied the truth when it came unto them. But therewill come unto them the tidings of that which they used to deride.
6/6 See they not how many a generation We destroyed before them,whom We had established in the earth more firmly than We have establishedyou, and We shed on them abundant showers from the sky, and made the riversflow beneath them.  Yet we destroyed them for their sins, and created afterthem another generation.
6/7 Had we sent down unto thee (Muhammad) (actual) writing uponparchment, so that they could feel it with their hands, those whodisbelieve would have said: This is naught else than mere magic.
6/8 They say: Why hath not an angel been sent down unto him? If Wesent down an angel, then the matter would be judged; no further time wouldbe allowed them (for reflection).
6/9 Had we appointed him (Our messenger) an angel, We assuredlyhad made him (as) a man (that he might speak to men); and (thus) obscuredfor them (the truth) they (now) obscure.
6/10 Messengers (of Allah) have been derided before thee, but thatwhereat they scoffed surrounded such of them as did deride.
6/11 Say (unto the disbelievers): Travel in the land, and see thenature of the consequence for the rejecters!
6/12 Say: Unto whom belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and theearth? Say: Unto Allah. He hath prescribed for Himself mercy, that He maybring you all together to the Day of Resurrection whereof there is nodoubt. Those who ruin their souls will not believe.
6/13 Unto Him belongeth whatsoever resteth in the night and theday. He is the Hearer, the Knower.
6/14 Say: Shall I choose for a protecting friend other than Allah,the Originator of the heavens and the earth, Who feedeth and is never fed?Say: I am ordered to be the first to surrender (unto Him). And be not thou(O Muhammad) of the idolaters.
6/15 Say: I fear, if I rebel against my Lord, the retribution of anAwful Day.
6/16 He from whom (such retribution) is averted on that day,(Allah) hath in truth had mercy on him. That will be the signal triumph.
6/17 If Allah touch thee with affliction, there is none that canrelieve therefrom save Him, and if He touch thee with good fortune (thereis none that can impair it); for He is Able to do all things.
6/18 He is the Omnipotent over His slaves, and He is the Wise, theKnower.
6/19 Say (O Muhammad): What thing is of most weight in testimony?Say: Allah is Witness between me and you. And this Qur'an hath beeninspired in me, that I may warn therewith you and whomsoever it may reach.Do ye in sooth bear witness that there are gods beside Allah? Say: I bearno such witness. Say: He is only One Allah. Lo! I am innocent of that whichye associate (with Him).
6/20 Those unto whom We gave the Scripture recognise (thisrevelation) as they recognise their sons. Those who ruin their own soulswill not believe.
6/21 Who doth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie againstAllah or denieth His revelations? Lo! the wrongdoers will not besuccessful.
6/22 And on the day We gather them together We shall say unto thosewho ascribed partners (unto Allah): Where are (now) those partners of yourmake-believe?
6/23 Then will they have no contention save that they will say: ByAllah, our Lord, we never were idolaters.
6/24 See how they lie against themselves, and (how) the thing whichthey devised hath failed them!
6/25 Of them are some who listen unto thee, but We have placed upontheir hearts veils, lest they should understand, and in their ears adeafness. If they saw every token they would not believe therein; to thepoint that, when they come unto thee to argue with thee, the disbelieverssay: This is naught else than fables of the men of old.
6/26 And they forbid (men) from it and avoid it, and they ruin nonesave themselves, though they perceive not.
6/27 If thou couldst see when they are set before the Fire and say:Oh, would that we might return! Then would we not deny the revelations ofour Lord but we would be of the believers!
6/28 Nay, but that hath become clear unto them which before theyused to hide. And if they were sent back they would return unto that whichthey are forbidden. Lo! they are liars.
6/29 And they say: There is naught save our life of the world, andwe shall not be raised (again).
6/30 If thou couldst see when they are set before their Lord! Hewill say: Is not this real? They will say: Yea, verily, by our Lord! Hewill say: Taste now the retribution for that ye used to disbelieve.
6/31 They indeed are losers who deny their meeting with Allahuntil, when the Hour cometh on them suddenly, they cry: Alas for us, thatwe neglected it! They bear upon their backs their burdens. Ah, evil is thatwhich they bear!
6/32 Naught is the life of the world save a pastime and a spot.Better far is the abode of the Hereafter for those who keep their duty (toAllah). Have ye then no sense?
6/33 We know well how their talk grieveth thee, though in truththey deny not thee (Muhammad) but evil-doers flout the revelations ofAllah.
6/34 Messengers indeed have been denied before thee, and they werepatient under the denial and the persecution till Our succour reached them.There is none to alter the decisions of Allah. Already there hath reachedthee (somewhat) of the tidings of the messengers (We sent before).
6/35 And if their aversion is grievous unto thee, then, if thoucanst, seek a way down into the earth or a ladder unto the sky that thoumayst bring unto them a portent (to convince them all)! - If Allah willed,He could have brought them all together to the guidance - So be not thouamong the foolish ones.
6/36 Only those can accept who hear. As for the dead, Allah willraise them up; then unto Him they will be returned.
6/37 They say: Why hath no portent been sent down upon him from hisLord? Say: Lo! Allah is Able to send down a portent. But most of them knownot.
6/38 There is not an animal in the earth, nor a flying creatureflying on two wings, but they are peoples like unto you. We have neglectednothing in the Book (of Our decrees). Then unto their Lord they will begathered.
6/39 Those who deny Our revelations are deaf and dumb in darkness.Whom Allah will sendeth astray, and whom He will He placeth on a straightpath.
6/40 Say: Can ye see yourselves, if the punishment of Allah comeupon you or the Hour come upon you, (calling upon other than Allah)? Do yethen call (for help) to any other than Allah? (Answer that) if ye aretruthful.
6/41 Nay, but unto Him ye call, and He removeth that because ofwhich ye call unto Him, if He will, and ye forget whatever partners yeascribed unto Him.
6/42 We have sent already unto peoples that were before thee, andWe visited them with tribulation and adversity, in order that they mightgrow humble.
6/43 If only, when Our disaster came on them, they had been humble!But their hearts were hardened and the devil made all that they used to doseem fair unto them!
6/44 Then, when they forgot that whereof they had been reminded, Weopened unto them the gates of all things till, even as they were rejoicingin that which they were given, We  seized them unawares, and lo! they weredumbfounded.
6/45 So of the people who did wrong the last remnant was cut off.Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds!
6/46 Say: Have ye imagined, if Allah should take away your hearingand your sight and seal your hearts, Who is the Allah Who could restore it toyou save Allah? See how We display the revelations unto them! Yet stillthey turn away.
6/47 Say: Can ye see yourselves, if the punishment of Allah comeupon you unawares or openly? Would any perish save wrongdoing folk?
6/48 We send not the messengers save as bearers of good news andwarners. Whoso believeth and doeth right, there shall no fear come uponthem neither shall they grieve.
6/49 But as for those who deny Our revelations, torment willafflict them for that they used to disobey.
6/50 Say (O Muhammad, to the disbelievers): I say not unto you(that) I possess the treasures of Allah, nor that I have knowledge of theUnseen; and I say not unto you: Lo! I am an angel. I follow only that whichis inspired in me. Say: Are the blind man and the seer equal? Will ye notthen take thought?
6/51 Warn hereby those who fear (because they know) that they willbe gathered unto their Lord, for whom there is no protecting ally norintercessor beside Him, that they may ward off (evil).
6/52 Repel not those who call upon their Lord at morn and evening,seeking His Countenance. Thou art not accountable for them in aught, norare they accountable for thee in aught, that thou shouldst repel them andbe of the wrong-doers.
6/53 And even so do We try some of them by others, that they say:Are these they whom Allah favoureth among us? Is not Allah best Aware ofthe thanksgivers?
6/54 And when those who believe in Our revelations come unto thee,say: Peace be unto you! Your Lord hath prescribed for Himself mercy, thatwhoso of you doeth evil through ignorance and repenteth afterward thereofand doeth right, (for him) lo! He is Forgiving, Merciful.
6/55 Thus do We expound the revelations that the way of theunrighteous may be manifest.
6/56 Say: I am forbidden to worship those on whom ye call insteadof Allah. Say: I will not follow your desires, for then should I go astrayand I should not be of the rightly guided.
6/57 Say: I am (relying) on clear proof from my Lord, while ye denyHim. I have not that for which ye are impatient. The decision is for Allahonly. He telleth the truth and He is the Best of Deciders.
6/58 Say: If I had that for which ye are impatient, then would thecase (ere this) have been decided between me and you. Allah is Best Awareof the wrong-doers.
6/59 And with Him are the keys of the Invisible. None but Heknoweth them. And He knoweth what is in the land and the sea. Not a leaffalleth but He knoweth it, not a grain amid the darkness of the earth,naught of wet or dry but (it is noted) in a clear record.
6/60 He it is Who gathereth you at night and knoweth that which yecommit by day. Then He raiseth you again to life therein, that the termappointed (for you) may be accomplished. And afterward unto Him is yourreturn. Then He will proclaim unto you what ye used to do.
6/61 He is the Omnipotent over His slaves. He sendeth guardiansover you until, when death cometh unto one of you, Our messengers receivehim, and they neglect not.
6/62 Then are they restored unto Allah, their Lord, the Just.Surely His is the judgment. And He is the most swift of reckoners.
6/63 Say: Who delivereth you from the darkness of the land and thesea? Ye call upon Him humbly and in secret, (saying): If we are deliveredfrom this (fear) we truly will be of the thankful.
6/64 Say: Allah delivereth you from this and from all affliction.Yet ye attribute partners unto Him.
6/65 Say: He is able to send punishment upon you from above you orfrom beneath your feet, or to bewilder you with dissension and make youtaste the tyranny one of another. See how We display the revelations sothat they may understand.
6/66 Thy people (O Muhammad) have denied it, though it is theTruth. Say: I am not put in charge of you.
6/67 For every announcement there is a term, and ye will come toknow.
6/68 And when thou seest those who meddle with Our revelations,withdraw from them until they meddle with another topic. And if the devilcause thee to forget, sit not, after the remembrance, with the congregationof wrong-doers.
6/69 Those who ward off (evil) are not accountable for them inaught, but the Reminder (must be given them) that haply they (too) may wardoff (evil).
6/70 And forsake those who take their religion for a pastime and ajest, and whom the life of the world beguileth. Remind (mankind) herebylest a soul be destroyed by what it earneth. It hath beside Allah noprotecting ally nor intercessor, and though it offer every compensation itwill not be accepted from it. Those are they who perish by their owndeserts. For them is drink of boiling water and a painful doom, becausethey disbelieved.
6/71 Say: Shall we cry, instead of unto Allah, unto that whichneither profiteth us nor hurteth us, and shall we turn back after Allahhath guided us, like one bewildered whom the devils have infatuated in theearth, who hath companions who invite him to the guidance (saying): Comeunto us? Say: Lo! the guidance of Allah is Guidance, and we are ordered tosurrender to the Lord of the Worlds,
6/72 And to establish worship and be dutiful to Him, and He it isunto Whom ye will be gathered.
6/73 He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in truth. Inthe day when He saith: Be! it is. His Word is the Truth, and His will bethe Sovereignty on the day when the trumpet is blown. Knower of theInvisible and the Visible, He is the Wise, the Aware.
6/74 (Remember) when Abraham said unto his father Azar: Takest thouidols for gods? Lo! I see thee and thy folk in error manifest.
6/75 Thus did We show Abraham the kingdom of the heavens and theearth that he might be of those possessing certainty:
6/76 When the night grew dark upon him he beheld a star. He said:This is my Lord. But when it set, he said: I love not things that set.
6/77 And when he saw the moon uprising, he exclaimed: This is myLord. But when it set, he said: Unless my Lord guide me, I surely shallbecome one of the folk who are astray.
6/78 And when he saw the sun uprising, he cried: This is my Lord!This is greater! And when it set he exclaimed: O my people! Lo! I am freefrom all that ye associate (with Him).
6/79 Lo! I have turned my face toward Him Who created the heavensand the earth, as one by nature upright, and I am not of the idolaters.
6/80 His people argued with him. He said: Dispute ye with meconcerning Allah when He hath guided me? I fear not at all that which yeset up beside Him unless my Lord willeth aught. My Lord includeth allthings in His knowledge. Will ye not then remember?
6/81 How should I fear that which ye set up beside Him, when yefear not to set up beside Allah that for which He hath revealed unto you nowarrant? Which of the two factions hath more right to safety? (Answer methat) if ye have knowledge.
6/82 Those who believe and obscure not their belief by wrongdoing,theirs is safety; and they are rightly guided.
6/83 That is Our argument. We gave it unto Abraham against hisfolk. We raise unto degrees of wisdom whom We will. Lo! thy Lord is Wise,Aware.
6/84 And We bestowed upon him Isaac and Jacob; each of them Weguided; and Noah did We guide aforetime; and of his seed (We guided) Davidand Solomon and Job and Joseph and Moses and Aaron. Thus do We reward thegood.
6/85 And Zachariah and John and Jesus and Elias. Each one (of them)was of the righteous.
6/86 And Ishmael and Elisha and Jonah and Lot. Each one (of them)did We prefer above (Our) creatures,
6/87 With some of their forefathers and their offspring and theirbrethren; and We chose them and guided them unto a straight path.
6/88 Such is the guidance of Allah wherewith He guideth whom Hewill of His bondmen. But if they had set up (for worship) aught beside Him,(all) that they did would have been vain.
6/89 Those are they unto whom We gave the Scripture and command andprophethood. But if these disbelieve therein, then indeed We shall entrustit to a people who will not be disbelievers therein.
6/90 Those are they whom Allah guideth, so follow their guidance.Say (O Muhammad, unto mankind): I ask of you no fee for it. Lo! it isnaught but a Reminder to (His) creatures.
6/91 And they measure not the power of Allah its true measure whenthey say: Allah hath naught revealed unto a human being. Say (unto the Jewswho speak thus): Who revealed the Book which Moses brought, a light andguidance for mankind, which ye have put on parchments which ye show, but yehide much (thereof), and (by which) ye were taught that which ye knew notyourselves nor (did) your fathers (know it)? Say: Allah. Then leave them totheir play of cavilling.
6/92 And this is a blessed Scripture which We have revealed,confirming that which (was revealed) before it, that thou mayst warn theMother of Villages and those around her. Those who believe in the Hereafterbelieve herein, and they are careful of their worship.
6/93 Who is guilty of more wrong than he who forgeth a lie againstAllah, or saith: I am inspired, when he is not inspired in aught; and whosaith: I will reveal the like of that which Allah hath revealed? If thoucouldst see, when the wrong-doers reach the pangs of death and the angelsstretch their hands out (saying): Deliver up your souls. This day ye areawarded doom of degradation for that ye spake concerning Allah other thanthe truth, and used to scorn His portents.
6/94 Now have ye come unto Us solitary as We did create you at thefirst, and ye have left behind you all that We bestowed upon you, and Webehold not with you those your intercessors, of whom ye claimed that theypossessed a share in you. Now is the bond between you severed, and thatwhich ye presumed hath failed you.
6/95 Lo! Allah (it is) Who splitteth the grain of corn and thedate-stone (for sprouting). He bringeth forth the living from the dead, andis the bringer-forth of the dead from the living. Such is Allah. How thenare ye perverted?
6/96 He is the Cleaver of the Daybreak, and He hath appointed thenight for stillness, and the sun and the moon for reckoning. That is themeasuring of the Mighty, the Wise.
6/97 And He it is Who hath set for you the stars that ye may guideyour course by them amid the darkness of the land and the sea. We havedetailed Our revelations for a people who have knowledge.
6/98 And He it is Who hath produced you from a single being, and(hath given you) a habitation and a repository. We have detailed Ourrevelations for a people who have understanding.
6/99 He it is Who sendeth down water from the sky, and therewith Webring forth buds of every kind; We bring forth the green blade from whichWe bring forth the thick-clustered grain; and from the date-palm, from thepollen thereof, spring pendant bunches; and (We bring forth) gardens ofgrapes, and the olive and the pomegranate, alike and unlike. Look upon thefruit thereof, when they bear fruit, and upon its ripening. Lo! hereinverily are portents for a people who believe.
6/100 Yet they ascribe as partners unto Him the jinn, although Hedid create them, and impute falsely, without knowledge, sons and daughtersunto Him. Glorified be He and High Exalted above (all) that they ascribe(unto Him).
6/101 The Originator of the heavens and the earth! How can He have achild, when there is for Him no consort, when He created all things and isAware of all things?
6/102 Such is Allah, your Lord. There is no Allah save Him, theCreator of all things, so worship Him. And He taketh care of all things.
6/103 Vision comprehendeth Him not, but He comprehendeth (all)vision. He is the Subtile, the Aware.
6/104 Proofs have come unto you from your Lord, so whoso seeth, itis for his own good, and whoso is blind is blind to his own hurt. And I amnot a keeper over you.
6/105 Thus do We display Our revelations that they may say (untothee, Muhammad): "Thou hast studied," and that We may make (it) clear forpeople who have knowledge.
6/106 Follow that which is inspired in thee from thy Lord; there isno Allah save Him; and turn away from the idolaters.
6/107 Had Allah willed, they had not been idolatrous. We have notset thee as a keeper over them, nor art thou responsible for them.
6/108 Revile not those unto whom they pray beside Allah lest theywrongfully revile Allah through ignorance. Thus unto every nation have Wemade their deed seem fair. Then unto their Lord is their return, and Hewill tell them what they used to do.
6/109 And they swear a solemn oath by Allah that if there come untothem a portent they will believe therein. Say; Portents are with Allah and(so is) that which telleth you that if such came unto them they would notbelieve.
6/110 We confound their hearts and their eyes. As they believed nottherein at the first, We let them wander blindly on in their contumacy.
6/111 And though We should send down the angels unto them, and thedead should speak unto them, and We should gather against them all thingsin array, they would not believe unless Allah so willed. Howbeit, most ofthem are ignorant.
6/112 Thus have We appointed unto every prophet an adversary -devils of humankind and jinn who inspire in one another plausible discoursethrough guile. If thy Lord willed, they would not do so; so leave themalone with their devising;
6/113 That the hearts of those who believe not in the Hereafter mayincline thereto, and that they may take pleasure therein, and that they mayearn what they are earning.
6/114 Shall I seek other than Allah for judge, when He it is Whohath revealed unto you (this) Scripture, fully explained? Those unto whomWe gave the Scripture (aforetime) know that it is revealed from thy Lord intruth. So be not thou (O Muhammad) of the waverers.
6/115 Perfected is the Word of thy Lord in truth and justice. Thereis naught that can change His words. He is the Hearer, the Knower.
6/116 If thou obeyedst most of those on earth they would misleadthee far from Allah's way. They follow naught but an opinion, and they dobut guess.
6/117 Lo! thy Lord, He knoweth best who erreth from His way; and Heknoweth best (who are) the rightly guided.
6/118 Eat of that over which the name of Allah hath been mentioned,if ye are believers in His revelations.
6/119 How should ye not eat of that over which the name of Allahhath been mentioned, when He hath explained unto you that which isforbidden unto you unless ye are compelled thereto. But lo! many are ledastray by their own lusts through ignorance. Lo! thy Lord, He is Best Awareof the transgressors.
6/120 Forsake the outwardness of sin and the inwardness thereof. Lo!those who garner sin will be awarded that which they have earned.
6/121 And eat not of that whereon Allah's name hath not beenmentioned, for lo! it is abomination. Lo! the devils do inspire theirminions to dispute with you. But if ye obey them, ye will be in truthidolaters.
6/122 Is he who was dead and We have raised him unto life, and setfor him a light wherein he walketh among men, as him whose similitude is inutter darkness whence he cannot emerge? Thus is their conduct madefairseeming for the disbelievers.
6/123 And thus have We made in every city great ones of its wickedones, that they should plot therein. They do but plot against themselves,though they perceive not.
6/124 And when a token cometh unto them, they say: We will notbelieve till we are given that which Allah's messengers are given. Allahknoweth best with whom to place His message. Humiliation from Allah andheavy punishment will smite the guilty for their scheming.
6/125 And whomsoever it is Allah's will to guide, He expandeth hisbosom unto the Surrender, and whomsoever it is His Will to send astray, Hemaketh his bosom close and narrow as if he were engaged in sheer ascent.Thus Allah layeth ignominy upon those who believe not.
6/126 This is the path of thy Lord, a straight path. We havedetailed Our revelations for a people who take heed.
6/127 For them is the abode of peace with their Lord. He will betheir Protecting Friend because of what they used to do.
6/128 In the day when He will gather them together (He will say): Oye assembly of the jinn! Many of humankind did ye seduce. And theiradherents among humankind will say: Our Lord! We enjoyed one another, butnow we have arrived at the appointed term which Thou appointedst for us. Hewill say: Fire is your home. Abide therein for ever, save him whom Allahwilleth (to deliver). Lo! thy Lord is Wise, Aware.
6/129 Thus We let some of the wrong-doers have power over othersbecause of what they are wont to earn.
6/130 O ye assembly of the jinn and humankind! Came there not untoyou messengers of your own who recounted unto you My tokens and warned youof the meeting of this your Day? They will say: We testify againstourselves. And the life of the world beguiled them. And they testifyagainst themselves that they were disbelievers.
6/131 This is because thy Lord destroyeth not the townshipsarbitrarily while their people are unconscious (of the wrong they do).
6/132 For all there will be ranks from what they did. Thy Lord isnot unaware of what they do.
6/133 Thy Lord is the Absolute, the Lord of Mercy. If He will, Hecan remove you and can cause what He will to follow after you, even as Heraised you from the seed of other folk.
6/134 Lo! that which ye are promised will surely come to pass, andye cannot escape.
6/135 Say (O Muhammad): O my people! Work according to your power.Lo! I too am working. Thus ye will come to know for which of us will be thehappy sequel. Lo! the wrong-doers will not be successful.
6/136 They assign unto Allah, of the crops and cattle which Hecreated, a portion, and they say: "This is Allah's" - in their make-believe- "and this is for (His) partners in regard to us." Thus that which (theyassign) unto His partners in them reacheth not Allah and that which (theyassign) unto Allah goeth to their (so-called) partners. Evil is theirordinance.
6/137 Thus have their (so-called) partners (of Allah) made thekilling of their children to seem fair unto many of the idolaters, thatthey may ruin them and make their faith obscure for them. Had Allah willed(it otherwise), they had not done so. So leave them alone with theirdevices.
6/138 And they say: Such cattle and crops are forbidden. No-one isto eat of them save whom we will - in their make-believe - cattle whosebacks are forbidden, cattle over which they mention not the name of Allah.(All that is) a lie against Him. He will repay them for that which theyinvent.
6/139 And they say: That which is in the bellies of such cattle isreserved for our males and is forbidden to our wives; but if it be borndead, then they (all) may be partakers thereof. He will reward them fortheir attribution (of such ordinances unto Him). Lo, He is Wise, Aware.
6/140 They are losers who besottedly have slain their childrenwithout knowledge, and have forbidden that which Allah bestowed upon them,inventing a lie against Allah. They indeed have gone astray and are notguided.
6/141 He it is Who produceth gardens trellised and untrellised, andthe date-palm, and crops of divers flavour, and the olive and thepomegranate, like and unlike. Eat ye of the fruit thereof when it fruiteth,and pay the due thereof upon the harvest day, and be not prodigal. Lo!Allah loveth not the prodigals.
6/142 And of the cattle (He produceth) some for burdens, some forfood. Eat of that which Allah hath bestowed upon you, and follow not thefootsteps of the devil, for lo! he is an open foe to you.
6/143 Eight pairs: Of the sheep twain, and of the goats twain. Say:Hath He forbidden the two males or the two females, or that which the wombsof the two females contain? Expound to me (the case) with knowledge, if yeare truthful.
6/144 And of the camels twain and of the oxen twain. Say: Hath Heforbidden the two males or the two females, or that which the wombs of thetwo females contain; or were ye by to witness when Allah commanded you(all) this? Then who doth greater wrong than he who deviseth a lieconcerning Allah, that he may lead mankind astray without knowledge. Lo!Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
6/145 Say: I find not in that which is revealed unto me aughtprohibited to an eater that he eat thereof, except it be carrion, or bloodpoured forth, or swineflesh - for that verily is foul - or the abominationwhich was immolated to the name of other than Allah. But whoso is compelled(thereto), neither craving nor transgressing, (for him) lo! thy Lord isForgiving, Merciful.
6/146 Unto those who are Jews We forbade every animal with claws.And of the oxen and the sheep forbade We unto them the fat thereof savethat upon the backs or the entrails, or that which is mixed with the bone.That we awarded them for their rebellion. And lo! we verily are truthful.
6/147 So if they give the lie to thee (Muhammad), say: Your Lord isa Lord of All-Embracing Mercy, and His wrath will never be withdrawn fromguilty folk.
6/148 They who are idolaters will say: Had Allah willed, we had notascribed (unto Him) partners neither had our fathers, nor had we forbiddenaught. Thus did those who were before them give the lie (to Allah'smessengers) till they tasted of the fear of Us. Say: Have ye any knowledgethat ye can adduce for Us? Lo! ye follow naught but an opinion, Lo! ye dobut guess.
6/149 Say - For Allah's is the final argument - Had He willed Hecould indeed have guided all of you.
6/150 Say: Come, bring your witnesses who can bear witness thatAllah forbade (all) this. And if they bear witness, do not thou bearwitness with them. Follow thou not the whims of those who deny Ourrevelations, those who believe not in the Hereafter and deem (others) equalwith their Lord.
6/151 Say: Come, I will recite unto you that which your Lord hathmade a sacred duty for you: That ye ascribe no thing as partner unto Himand that ye do good to parents, and that ye slay not your children becauseof penury - We provide for you and for them - and that ye draw not nigh tolewd things whether open or concealed. And that ye slay not the life whichAllah hath made sacred, save in the course of justice. This He hath commandyou, in order that ye may discern.
6/152 And approach not the wealth of the orphan save with that whichis better, till he reach maturity. Give full measure and full weight, injustice. We task not any soul beyond its scope. And if ye give your word,do justice thereunto, even though it be (against) a kinsman; and fulfil thecovenant of Allah. This He commandeth you that haply ye may remember.
6/153 And (He commandeth you, saying): This is My straight path, sofollow it. Follow not other ways, lest ye be parted from His way. This hathHe ordained for you, that ye may ward off (evil).
6/154 Again, We gave the Scripture unto Moses, complete for him whowould do good, an explanation of all things, a guidance and a mercy, thatthey might believe in the meeting with their Lord.
6/155 And this is a blessed Scripture which We have revealed. Sofollow it and ward off (evil), that ye may find mercy.
6/156 Lest ye should say: The Scripture was revealed only to twosects before us, and we in sooth were unaware of what they read;
6/157 Or lest ye should say: If the Scripture had been revealed untous, we surely had been better guided than are they. Now hath there comeunto you a clear proof from your Lord, a guidance and mercy; and who doethgreater wrong than he who denieth the revelations of Allah, and turnethaway from them? We award unto those who turn away from Our revelations anevil doom because of their aversion.
6/158 Wait they, indeed, for nothing less than that the angelsshould come unto them, or thy Lord should come, or there should come one ofthe portents from thy Lord? In the day when one of the portents from thyLord cometh, its belief availeth naught a soul which theretofore believednot, nor in its belief earned good (by works). Say: Wait ye! Lo! We (too)are waiting.
6/159 Lo! As for those who sunder their religion and becomeschismatics, no concern at all hast thou with them. Their case will go toAllah, Who then will tell them what they used to do.
6/160 Whoso bringeth a good deed will receive tenfold the likethereof, while whoso bringeth an ill-deed will be awarded but the likethereof; and they will not be wronged.
6/161 Say: Lo! As for me, my Lord hath guided me unto a straightpath, a right religion, the community of Abraham, the upright, who was noidolater.
6/162 Say: Lo! my worship and my sacrifice and my living and mydying are for Allah, Lord of the Worlds.
6/163 He hath no partner. This am I commanded, and I am first ofthose who surrender (unto Him).
6/164 Say: Shall I seek another than Allah for Lord, when He is Lordof all things? Each soul earneth only on its own account, nor doth anyladen bear another's load. Then unto your Lord is your return and He willtell you that wherein ye differed.
6/165 He it is Who hath placed you as viceroys of the earth andhath exalted some of you in rank above others, that He may try you by (thetest of) that which He hath given you. Lo! Thy Lord is swift inprosecution, and Lo! He verily is Forgiving, Merciful.
