41/1 Ha. Mim.
41/2 A revelation from the Beneficent, the Merciful,
41/3 A Scripture whereof the verses are expounded, a Lecture inArabic for people who have knowledge,
41/4 Good tidings and a warning. But most of them turn away so thatthey hear not.
41/5 And they say: Our hearts are protected from that unto whichthou (O Muhammad) callest us, and in our ears there is a deafness, andbetween us and thee there is a veil. Act, then. Lo! we also shall beacting.
41/6 Say (unto them O Muhammad): I am only a mortal like you. It isinspired in me that your Allah is One Allah, therefor take the straight pathunto Him and seek forgiveness of Him. And woe unto the idolaters,
41/7 Who give not the poor-due, and who are disbelievers in theHereafter.
41/8 Lo! as for those who believe and do good works, for them is areward enduring.
41/9 Say (O Muhammad, unto the idolaters): Disbelieve ye verily inHim Who created the earth in two Days, and ascribe ye unto Him rivals? He(and none else) is the Lord of the Worlds.
41/10 He placed therein firm hills rising above it, and blessed itand measured therein its sustenance in four Days, alike for (all) who ask;
41/11 Then turned He to the heaven when it was smoke, and said untoit and unto the earth: Come both of you, willingly or loth. They said: Wecome, obedient.
41/12 Then He ordained them seven heavens in two Days and inspiredin each heaven its mandate; and We decked the nether heaven with lamps, andrendered it inviolable. That is the measuring of the Mighty, the Knower.
41/13 But if they turn away, then say: I warn you of a thunderboltlike the thunderbolt (which fell of old upon the tribes) of A'ad andThamud;
41/14 When their messengers came unto them from before them andbehind them, saying: Worship none but Allah! they said: If our Lord hadwilled, He surely would have sent down angels (unto us), so lo! we aredisbelievers in that wherewith ye have been sent.
41/15 As for A'ad, they were arrogant in the land without right, andthey said: Who is mightier than us in power? Could they not see that AllahWho created them, He was mightier than them in power? And they denied Ourrevelations.
41/16 Therefor We let loose on them a raging wind in evil days, thatWe might make them taste the torment of disgrace in the life of the world.And verily the doom of the Hereafter will be more shameful, and they willnot be helped.
41/17 And as for Thamud, We gave them guidance, but they preferredblindness to the guidance, so the bolt of the doom of humiliation overtookthem because of what they used to earn.
41/18 And We delivered those who believed and used to keep theirduty to Allah.
41/19 And (make mention of) the day when the enemies of Allah aregathered unto the Fire, they are driven on
41/20 Till, when they reach it, their ears and their eyes and theirskins testify against them as to what they used to do.
41/21 And they say unto their skins: Why testify ye against us? Theysay: Allah hath given us speech Who giveth speech to all things, and Whocreated you at the first, and unto Whom ye are returned.
41/22 Ye did not hide yourselves lest your ears and your eyes andyour skins should testify against you, but ye deemed that Allah knew notmuch of what ye did.
41/23 That, your thought which ye did think about your Lord, hathruined you; and ye find yourselves (this day) among the lost.
41/24 And though they are resigned, yet the Fire is still theirhome; and if they ask for favour, yet they are not of those unto whomfavour can be shown.
41/25 And We assigned them comrades (in the world), who made theirpresent and their past fairseeming unto them. And the Word concerningnations of the jinn and humankind who passed away before them hath effectfor them. Lo! they were ever losers.
41/26 Those who disbelieve say: Heed not this Qur'an, and drown thehearing of it; haply ye may conquer.
41/27 But verily We shall cause those who disbelieve to taste anawful doom, and verily We shall requite them the worst of what they used todo.
41/28 That is the reward of Allah's enemies: the Fire. Therein istheir immortal home, payment forasmuch as they denied Our revelations.
41/29 And those who disbelieve will say: Our Lord! Show us those whobeguiled us of the jinn and humankind. We will place them underneath ourfeet that they may be among the nethermost.
41/30 Lo! those who say: Our Lord is Allah, and afterward areupright, the angels descend upon them, saying: Fear not nor grieve, buthear good tidings of the paradise which ye are promised.
41/31 We are your protecting friends in the life of the world and inthe Hereafter. There ye will have (all) that your souls desire, and thereye will have (all) for which ye pray.
41/32 A gift of welcome from One Forgiving, Merciful.
41/33 And who is better in speech than him who prayeth unto his Lordand doeth right, and saith: Lo! I am of those who are muslims (surrenderunto Him).
41/34 The good deed and the evil deed are not alike. Repel the evildeed with one which is better, then lo! he, between whom and thee there wasenmity (will become) as though he was a bosom friend.
41/35 But none is granted it save those who are steadfast, and noneis granted it save the owner of great happiness.
41/36 And if a whisper from the devil reach thee (O Muhammad) thenseek refuge in Allah. Lo! He is the Hearer, the Knower.
41/37 And of His portents are the night and the day and the sun andthe moon. Do not prostrate to the sun or the moon; but prostrate toAllah Who created them, if it is in truth Him Whom ye worship.
41/38 But if they are too proud - still those who are with thy Lordglorify Him night and day, and tire not.
41/39 And of His portents (is this): that thou seest the earthlowly, but when We send down water thereon it thrilleth and groweth. Lo! HeWho quickeneth it is verily the Quickener of the Dead. Lo! He is Able to doall things.
41/40 Lo! those who distort Our revelations are not hid from Us. Ishe who is hurled into the Fire better, or he who cometh secure on the Dayof Resurrection? Do what ye will. Lo! He is Seer of what ye do.
41/41 Lo! those who disbelieve in the Reminder when it cometh untothem (are guilty), for lo! it is an unassailable Scripture.
41/42 Falsehood cannot come at it from before it or from behind it.(It is) a revelation from the Wise, the Owner of Praise.
41/43 Naught is said unto thee (Muhammad) save what was said untothe messengers before thee. Lo! thy Lord is owner of forgiveness, and owner(also) of dire punishment.
41/44 And if We had appointed it a Lecture in a foreign tongue theywould assuredly have said: If only its verses were expounded (so that wemight understand)? What! A foreign tongue and an Arab? - Say unto them (OMuhammad): For those who believe it is a guidance and a healing; and as forthose who disbelieve, there is a deafness in their ears, and it isblindness for them. Such are called to from afar.
41/45 And We verily gave Moses the Scripture, but there hath beendispute concerning it; and but for a Word that had already gone forth fromthy Lord, it would ere now have been judged between them; but lo! they arein hopeless doubt concerning it.
41/46 Whoso doeth right it is for his soul, and whoso doeth wrong itis against it. And thy Lord is not at all a tyrant to His slaves.
41/47 Unto Him is referred (all) knowledge of the Hour. And nofruits burst forth from their sheaths, and no female carrieth or bringethforth but with His knowledge. And on the day when He calleth unto them:Where are now My partners? they will say: We confess unto Thee, not one ofus is a witness (for them).
41/48 And those to whom they used to cry of old have failed them,and they perceive they have no place of refuge.
41/49 Man tireth not of praying for good, and if ill toucheth him,then he is disheartened, desperate.
41/50 And verily, if We cause him to taste mercy after some hurtthat hath touched him, he will say: This is my own; and I deem not that theHour will ever rise, and if I am brought back to my Lord, I surely shall bebetter off with Him - But We verily shall tell those who disbelieve (all)that they did, and We verily shall make them taste hard punishment.
41/51 When We show favour unto man, he withdraweth and turnethaside, but when ill toucheth him then he aboundeth in prayer.
41/52 Bethink you: If it is from Allah and ye reject it - Who isfurther astray than one who is at open feud (with Allah)?
41/53 We shall show them Our portents on the horizons and withinthemselves until it will be manifest unto them that it is the Truth. Dothnot thy Lord suffice, since He is Witness over all things?
41/54 How! Are they still in doubt about the meeting with theirLord? Lo! Is not He surrounding all things?
