57/1 All that is in the heavens and the earth glorifieth Allah; andHe is the Mighty, the Wise.
57/2 His is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth; Hequickeneth and He giveth death; and He is Able to do all things.
57/3 He is the First and the Last, and the Outward and the Inward;and He is Knower of all things.
57/4 He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in six Days;then He mounted the Throne. He knoweth all that entereth the earth and allthat emergeth therefrom and all that cometh down from the sky and all thatascendeth therein; and He is with you wheresoever ye may be. And Allah isSeer of what ye do.
57/5 His is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth, and untoAllah (all) things are brought back.
57/6 He causeth the night to pass into the day, and He causeth theday to pass into the night, and He is knower of all that is in thebreasts.
57/7 Believe in Allah and His messenger, and spend of that whereofHe hath made you trustees; and such of you as believe and spend (aright),theirs will be a great reward.
57/8 What aileth you that ye believe not in Allah, when themessenger calleth you to believe in your Lord, and He hath already made acovenant with you, if ye are believers?
57/9 He it is Who sendeth down clear revelations unto His slave,that He may bring you forth from darkness unto light; and lo! for you,Allah is Full of Pity, Merciful.
57/10 And what aileth you that ye spend not in the way of Allah whenunto Allah belongeth the inheritance of the heavens and the earth? Thosewho spent and fought before the victory are not upon a level (with the restof you). Such are greater in rank than those who spent and foughtafterwards. Unto each hath Allah promised good. And Allah is Informed ofwhat ye do.
57/11 Who is he that will lend unto Allah a goodly loan, that He maydouble it for him and his may be a rich reward?
57/12 On the day when thou (Muhammad) wilt see the believers, menand women, their light shining forth before them and on their right hands,(and wilt hear it said unto them): Glad news for you this day: Gardensunderneath which rivers flow, wherein ye are immortal. That is the supremetriumph.
57/13 On the day when the hypocritical men and the hypocriticalwomen will say unto those who believe: Look on us that we may borrow fromyour light! it will be said: Go back and seek for light! Then there willseparate them a wall wherein is a gate, the inner side whereof containethmercy, while the outer side thereof is toward the doom.
57/14 They will cry unto them (saying): Were we not with you? Theywill say: Yea, verily; but ye tempted one another, and hesitated, anddoubted, and vain desires beguiled you till the ordinance of Allah came topass; and the deceiver deceived you concerning Allah;
57/15 So this day no ransom can be taken from you nor from those whodisbelieved. Your home is the Fire; that is your patron, and a haplessjourney's end.
57/16 Is not the time ripe for the hearts of those who believe tosubmit to Allah's reminder and to the truth which is revealed, that theybecome not as those who received the scripture of old but the term wasprolonged for them and so their hearts were hardened, and many of them areevil-livers.
57/17 Know that Allah quickeneth the earth after its death. We havemade clear Our revelations for you, that haply ye may understand.
57/18 Lo! those who give alms, both men and women, and lend untoAllah a goodly loan, it will be doubled for them, and theirs will be a richreward.
57/19 And those who believe in Allah and His messengers, they arethe loyal, and the martyrs are with their Lord; they have their reward andtheir light; while as for those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations,they are owners of hell-fire.
57/20 Know that the life of the world is only play, and idle talk,and pageantry, and boasting among you, and rivalry in respect of wealth andchildren; as the likeness of vegetation after rain, whereof the growth ispleasing to the husbandman, but afterward it drieth up and thou seest itturning yellow, then it becometh straw. And in the Hereafter there isgrievous punishment, and (also) forgiveness from Allah and His goodpleasure, whereas the life of the world is but matter of illusion.
57/21 Race one with another for forgiveness from your Lord and aGarden whereof the breadth is as the breadth of the heavens and the earth,which is in store for those who believe in Allah and His messengers. Suchis the bounty of Allah, which He bestoweth upon whom He will, and Allah isof Infinite Bounty.
57/22 Naught of disaster befalleth in the earth or in yourselves butit is in a Book before we bring it into being - Lo! that is easy for Allah-
57/23 That ye grieve not for the sake of that which hath escapedyou, nor yet exult because of that which hath been given. Allah loveth notall prideful boasters,
57/24 Who hoard and who enjoin upon the people avarice. Andwhosoever turneth away, still Allah is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.
57/25 We verily sent Our messengers with clear proofs, and revealedwith them the Scripture and the Balance, that mankind may observe rightmeasure; and He revealed iron, wherein is mighty power and (many) uses formankind, and that Allah may know him who helpeth Him and His messengers,though unseen. Lo! Allah is Strong, Almighty.
57/26 And We verily sent Noah and Abraham and placed the prophethoodand the scripture among their seed, and among them there is he who goethright, but many of them are evil-livers.
57/27 Then We caused Our messengers to follow in their footsteps;and We caused Jesus, son of Mary, to follow, and gave him the Gospel, andplaced compassion and mercy in the hearts of those who followed him. Butmonasticism they invented - We ordained it not for them - only seekingAllah's pleasure, and they observed it not with right observance. So Wegive those of them who believe their reward, but many of them areevil-livers.
57/28 O ye who believe! Be mindful of your duty to Allah and putfaith in His messenger. He will give you twofold of His mercy and willappoint for you a light wherein ye shall walk, and will forgive you. Allahis Forgiving, Merciful;
57/29 That the People of the Scripture may know that they controlnaught of the bounty of Allah, but that the bounty is in Allah's hand togive to whom He will. And Allah is of Infinite Bounty.
