59/1 All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earthglorifieth Allah, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
59/2 He it is Who hath caused those of the People of the Scripturewho disbelieved to go forth from their homes unto the first exile. Yedeemed not that they would go forth, while they deemed that theirstrongholds would protect them from Allah.  But Allah reached them from aplace whereof they recked not, and cast terror in their hearts so that theyruined their houses with their own hands and the hands of the believers. Solearn a lesson, O ye who have eyes!
59/3 And if Allah had not decreed migration for them, He verilywould have punished them in the world, and theirs in the Hereafter is thepunishment of the Fire.
59/4 That is because they were opposed to Allah and His messenger;and whoso is opposed to Allah, (for him) verily Allah is stern inreprisal.
59/5 Whatsoever palm-trees ye cut down or left standing on theirroots, it was by Allah's leave, in order that He might confound theevil-livers.
59/6 And that which Allah gave as spoil unto His messenger fromthem, ye urged not any horse or riding-camel for the sake thereof, butAllah giveth His messenger lordship over whom He will. Allah is Able to doall things.
59/7 That which Allah giveth as spoil unto His messenger from thepeople of the townships, it is for Allah and His messenger and for the nearof kin and the orphans and the needy and the wayfarer, that it become not acommodity between the rich among you. And whatsoever the messenger givethyou, take it. And whatsoever he forbiddeth, abstain (from it). And keepyour duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is stern in reprisal.
59/8 And (it is) for the poor fugitives who have been driven outfrom their homes and their belongings, who seek bounty from Allah and helpAllah and His messenger. They are the loyal.
59/9 Those who entered the city and the faith before them lovethose who flee unto them for refuge, and find in their breasts no need forthat which hath been given them, but prefer (the fugitives) abovethemselves though poverty become their lot. And whoso is saved from his ownavarice - such are they who are successful.
59/10 And those who came (into the faith) after them say: Our Lord!Forgive us and our brethren who were before us in the faith, and place notin our hearts any rancour toward those who believe. Our Lord! Thou art Fullof Pity, Merciful.
59/11 Hast thou not observed those who are hypocrites, (how) theytell their brethren who disbelieve among the People of the Scripture: If yeare driven out, we surely will go out with you, and we will never obeyanyone against you, and if ye are attacked we verily will help you. AndAllah beareth witness that they verily are liars.
59/12 (For) indeed if they are driven out they go not out with them,and indeed if they are attacked they help them not, and indeed if they hadhelped them they would have turned and fled, and then they would not havebeen victorious.
59/13 Ye are more awful as a fear in their bosoms than Allah. Thatis because they are a folk who understand not.
59/14 They will not fight against you in a body save in fortifiedvillages or from behind walls. Their adversity among themselves is verygreat. Ye think of them as a whole whereas their hearts are divers. That isbecause they are a folk who have no sense.
59/15 On the likeness of those (who suffered) a short time beforethem, they taste the ill-effects of their own conduct, and theirs ispainful punishment.
59/16 (And the hypocrites are) on the likeness of the devil when hetelleth man to disbelieve, then, when he disbelieveth saith: Lo! I am quitof thee. Lo! I fear Allah, the Lord of the Worlds.
59/17 And the consequence for both will be that they are in theFire, therein abiding. Such is the reward of evil-doers.
59/18 O ye who believe! Observe your duty to Allah. And let everysoul look to that which it sendeth on before for the morrow. And observeyour duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is Informed of what ye do.
59/19 And be not ye as those who forgot Allah, therefor He causedthem to forget their souls. Such are the evil-doers.
59/20 Not equal are the owners of the Fire and the owners of theGarden. The owners of the Garden, they are the victorious.
59/21 If We had caused this Qur'an to descend upon a mountain, thou(O Muhammad) verily hadst seen it humbled, rent asunder by the fear ofAllah. Such similitudes coin We for mankind that haply they may reflect.
59/22 He is Allah, than Whom there is no other Allah, the Knower ofthe Invisible and the Visible. He is the Beneficent, Merciful.
59/23 He is Allah, than Whom there is no other Allah, the SovereignLord, the Holy One, Peace, the Keeper of Faith, the Guardian, the Majestic,the Compeller, the Superb. Glorified be Allah from all that they ascribe aspartner (unto Him).
59/24 He is Allah, the Creator, the Shaper out of naught, theFashioner. His are the most beautiful names. All that is in the heavens andthe earth glorifieth Him, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
