11/1 Alif. Lam. Ra. (This is) a Scripture the revelations whereofare perfected and then expounded. (It cometh) from One Wise, Informed,
11/2 (Saying): Serve none but Allah. Lo! I am unto you from Him awarner and a bringer of good tidings.
11/3 And (bidding you): Ask pardon of your Lord and turn to Himrepentant. He will cause you to enjoy a fair estate until a time appointed.He giveth His bounty unto every bountiful one. But if ye turn away, lo!(then) I fear for you the retribution of an awful Day.
11/4 Unto Allah is your return, and He is Able to do all things.
11/5 Lo! now they fold up their breasts that they may hide (theirthoughts) from Him. At the very moment when they cover themselves withtheir clothing, Allah knoweth that which they keep hidden and that whichthey proclaim. Lo! He is Aware of what is in the breasts (of men).
11/6 And there is not a beast in the earth but the sustenancethereof dependeth on Allah. He knoweth its habitation and its repository.All is in a clear Record.
11/7 And He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in six Days- and His Throne was upon the water - that He might try you, which of youis best in conduct. Yet if thou (O Muhammad) sayest: Lo! ye will be raisedagain after death! those who disbelieve will surely say: This is naught butmere magic.
11/8 And if We delay for them the doom until a reckoned time, theywill surely say: What withholdeth it? Verily on the day when it cometh untothem, it cannot be averted from them, and that which they derided willsurround them.
11/9 And if we cause man to taste some mercy from Us and afterwardwithdraw it from him, lo! he is despairing, thankless.
11/10 And if We cause him to taste grace after some misfortune thathad befallen him, he saith: The ills have gone from me. Lo! he is exultant,boastful;
11/11 Save those who persevere and do good works. Theirs will beforgiveness and a great reward.
11/12 A likely thing, that thou wouldst forsake aught of that whichhath been revealed unto thee, and that thy breast should be straitened forit, because they say: Why hath not a treasure been sent down for him, or anangel come with him? Thou art but a warner, and Allah is in charge of allthings.
11/13 Or they say: He hath invented it. Say: Then bring ten surahs,the like thereof, invented, and call on everyone ye can beside Allah, if yeare truthful!
11/14 And if they answer not your prayer, then know that it isrevealed only in the knowledge of Allah; and that there is no Allah save Him.Will ye then be (of) those who surrender?
11/15 Whoso desireth the life of the world and its pomp, We shallrepay them their deeds herein, and therein they will not be wronged.
11/16 Those are they for whom is naught in the Hereafter save theFire. (All) that they contrive here is vain and (all) that they are wont todo is fruitless.
11/17 Is he (to be counted equal with them) who relieth on a clearproof from his Lord, and a witness from Him reciteth it, and before it wasthe Book of Moses, an example and a mercy? Such believe therein, and whosodisbelieveth therein of the clans, the Fire is his appointed place. So benot thou in doubt concerning it. Lo! it is the Truth from thy Lord; butmost of mankind believe not.
11/18 Who doeth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie concerningAllah? Such will be brought before their Lord, and the witnesses will say:These are they who lied concerning their Lord. Now the curse of Allah isupon wrong-doers,
11/19 Who debar (men) from the way of Allah and would have itcrooked, and who are disbelievers in the Hereafter.
11/20 Such will not escape in the earth, nor have they anyprotecting friends beside Allah. For them the torment will be double. Theycould not bear to hear, and they used not to see.
11/21 Such are they who have lost their souls, and that which theyused to invent hath failed them.
11/22 Assuredly in the Hereafter they will be the greatest losers.
11/23 Lo! those who believe and do good works and humble themselvesbefore their Lord: such are rightful owners of the Garden; they will abidetherein.
11/24 The similitude of the two parties is as the blind and the deafand the seer and the hearer. Are they equal in similitude? Will ye not thenbe admonished?
11/25 And We sent Noah unto his folk (and he said): Lo! I am a plainwarner unto you.
11/26 That ye serve none, save Allah. Lo! I fear for you theretribution of a painful Day.
11/27 The chieftains of his folk, who disbelieved, said: We see theebut a mortal like us, and we see not that any follow thee save the mostabject among us, without reflection. We behold in you no merit above us -nay, we deem you liars.
11/28 He said: O my people! Bethink you, if I rely on a clear prooffrom my Lord and there hath come unto me a mercy from His presence, and ithath been made obscure to you, can we compel you to accept it when ye areaverse thereto?
11/29 And O my people! I ask of you no wealth therefor. My reward isthe concern only of Allah, and I am not going to thrust away those whobelieve - Lo! they have to meet their Lord! - but I see you a folk that areignorant.
11/30 And, O my people! who would deliver me from Allah if I thrustthem away? Will ye not then reflect?
11/31 I say not unto you: "I have the treasures of Allah" nor "Ihave knowledge of the Unseen," nor say I: "Lo! I am an angel!" Nor say Iunto those whom your eyes scorn that Allah will not give them good - Allahknoweth best what is in their hearts - Lo! then indeed I should be of thewrong-doers.
11/32 They said: O Noah! Thou hast disputed with us and multiplieddisputation with us; now bring upon us that wherewith thou threatenest us,if thou art of the truthful.
11/33 He said: Only Allah will bring it upon you if He will, and yecan by no means escape.
11/34 My counsel will not profit you if I were minded to advise you,if Allah's will is to keep you astray. He is your Lord and unto Him ye willbe brought back.
11/35 Or say they (again): He hath invented it? Say: If I haveinvented it, upon me be my crimes, but I am innocent of (all) that yecommit.
11/36 And it was inspired in Noah, (saying): No-one of thy folk willbelieve save him who hath believed already. Be not distressed because ofwhat they do.
11/37 Build the ship under Our eyes and by Our inspiration, andspeak not unto Me on behalf of those who do wrong. Lo! they will bedrowned.
11/38 And he was building the ship, and every time that chieftainsof his people passed him, they made mock of him. He said: Though ye makemock of Us, yet We mock at you even as ye mock;
11/39 And ye shall know to whom a punishment that will confound himcometh, and upon whom a lasting doom will fall.
11/40 (Thus it was) till, when Our commandment came to pass and theoven gushed forth water, We said: Load therein two of every kind, a pair(the male and female), and thy household, save him against whom the wordhath gone forth already, and those who believe. And but a few were they whobelieved with him.
11/41 And he said: Embark therein! In the name of Allah be itscourse and its mooring. Lo! my Lord is Forgiving, Merciful.
11/42 And it sailed with them amid waves like mountains, and Noahcried unto his son - and he was standing aloof - O my son! Come ride withus, and be not with the disbelievers.
11/43 He said: I shall betake me to some mountain that will save mefrom the water. (Noah) said: This day there is none that saveth from thecommandment of Allah save him on whom He hath had mercy. And the wave camein between them, so he was among the drowned.
11/44 And it was said: O earth! Swallow thy water and, O sky! becleared of clouds! And the water was made to subside. And the commandmentwas fulfilled. And it (the ship) came to rest upon (the mount) Al-Judi andit was said: A far removal for wrongdoing folk!
11/45 And Noah cried unto his Lord and said: My Lord! Lo! my son isof my household! Surely Thy promise is the truth and Thou are the Most Justof Judges.
11/46 He said: O Noah! Lo! he is not of thy household; lo! he is ofevil conduct, so ask not of Me that whereof thou hast no knowledge. Iadmonish thee lest thou be among the ignorant.
11/47 He said: My Lord! Lo! in Thee do I seek refuge (from the sin)that I should ask of Thee that whereof I have no knowledge. Unless Thouforgive me and have mercy on me I shall be among the lost.
11/48 It was said (unto him): O Noah! Go thou down (from themountain) with peace from Us and blessings upon thee and some nations (thatwill spring) from those with thee. (There will be other) nations unto whomWe shall give enjoyment a long while and then a painful doom from Us willovertake them.
11/49 This is of the tidings of the Unseen which We inspire in thee(Muhammad). Thou thyself knewest it not, nor did thy folk (know it) beforethis. Then have patience. Lo! the sequel is for those who ward off (evil).
11/50 And unto (the tribe of) A'ad (We sent) their brother, Hud. Hesaid: O my people! Serve Allah! Ye have no other Allah save Him. Lo! ye dobut invent.
11/51 O my people! I ask of you no reward for it. Lo! my reward isthe concern only of Him Who made me. Have ye then no sense?
11/52 And, O my people! Ask forgiveness of your Lord, then turn untoHim repentant; He will cause the sky to rain abundance on you and will addunto you strength to your strength. Turn not away, guilty!
11/53 They said: O Hud! Thou hast brought us no clear proof and weare not going to forsake our gods on thy (mere) saying, and we are notbelievers in thee.
11/54 We say naught save that one of our gods hath possessed thee inan evil way. He said: I call Allah to witness, and do ye (too) bearwitness, that I am innocent of (all) that ye ascribe as partners (toAllah)
11/55 Beside Him. So (try to) circumvent me, all of you, give me norespite.
11/56 Lo! I have put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord. Notan animal but He doth grasp it by the forelock! Lo! my Lord is on astraight path.
11/57 And if ye turn away, still I have conveyed unto you thatwherewith I was sent unto you, and my Lord will set in place of you a folkother than you. Ye cannot injure Him at all. Lo! my Lord is Guardian overall things.
11/58 And when Our commandment came to pass We saved Hud and thosewho believed with him by a mercy from Us; We saved them from a harsh doom.
11/59 And such were A'ad. They denied the revelations of their Lordand flouted His messengers and followed the command of every frowardpotentate.
11/60 And a curse was made to follow them in the world and on theDay of Resurrection. Lo! A'ad disbelieved in their Lord. A far removal forA'ad, the folk of Hud!
11/61 And unto (the tribe of) Thamud (We sent) their brother Salih.He said: O my people! Serve Allah, Ye have no other Allah save Him. Hebrought you forth from the earth and hath made you husband it. So askforgiveness of Him and turn unto Him repentant. Lo! my Lord is Nigh,Responsive.
11/62 They said: O Salih! Thou hast been among us hitherto as thatwherein our hope was placed. Dost thou ask us not to worship what ourfathers worshipped? Lo! we verily are in grave doubt concerning that towhich thou callest us.
11/63 He said: O my people! Bethink you: if I am (acting) on clearproof from my Lord and there hath come unto me a mercy from Him, who willsave me from Allah if I disobey Him? Ye would add to me naught saveperdition.
11/64 O my people! This is the camel of Allah, a token unto you, sosuffer her to feed in Allah's earth, and touch her not with harm lest anear torment seize you.
11/65 But they hamstrung her, and then he said: Enjoy life in yourdwelling-place three days! This is a threat that will not be belied.
11/66 So, when Our commandment came to pass, We saved Salih, andthose who believed with him, by a mercy from Us, from the ignominy of thatday. Lo, thy Lord! He is the Strong, the Mighty.
11/67 And the (awful) Cry overtook those who did wrong, so thatmorning found them prostrate in their dwellings,
11/68 As though they had not dwelt there. Lo! Thamud disbelieved intheir Lord. A far removal for Thamud!
11/69 And Our messengers cam unto Abraham with good news. They said:Peace! He answered: Peace! and delayed not to bring a roasted calf.
11/70 And when he saw their hands reached not to it, he mistrustedthem and conceived a fear of them. They said: Fear not! Lo! we are sentunto the folk of Lot.
11/71 And his wife, standing by laughed when We gave her goodtidings (of the birth) of Isaac, and, after Isaac, of Jacob.
11/72 She said: Oh woe is me! Shall I bear a child when I am an oldwoman, and this my husband is an old man? Lo! this is a strange thing!
11/73 They said: Wonderest thou at the commandment of Allah? Themercy of Allah and His blessings be upon you, O people of the house! Lo! Heis Owner of Praise, Owner of Glory!
11/74 And when the awe departed from Abraham, and the glad newsreached him, he pleaded with Us on behalf of the folk of Lot.
11/75 Lo! Abraham was mild, imploring, penitent.
11/76 (It was said) O Abraham! Forsake this! Lo! thy Lord'scommandment hath gone forth, and lo! there cometh unto them a doom whichcannot be repelled.
11/77 And when Our messengers came unto Lot, he was distressed andknew not how to protect them. He said: This is a distressful day.
11/78 And his people came unto him, running towards him - and beforethen they used to commit abominations - He said: O my people! Here are mydaughters! They are purer for you. Beware of Allah, and degrade me not in(the person of) my guests. Is there not among you any upright man?
11/79 They said: Well thou knowest that we have no right to thydaughters, and well thou knowest what we want.
11/80 He said: Would that I had strength to resist you or had somestrong support (among you)!
11/81 (The messengers) said: O Lot! Lo! we are messengers of thyLord; they shall not reach thee. So travel with thy people in a part of thenight, and let not one of you turn round - (all) save thy wife. Lo! thatwhich smiteth them will smite her (also). Lo! their tryst is (for) themorning. Is not the morning nigh?
11/82 So when Our commandment came to pass We overthrew (thattownship) and rained upon it stones of clay, one after another,
11/83 Marked with fire in the providence of thy Lord (for thedestruction of the wicked). And they are never far from the wrong-doers.
11/84 And unto Midian (We sent) their brother Shu'eyb. He said: Omy people! Serve Allah. Ye have no other Allah save Him! And give not shortmeasure and short weight. Lo! I see you well-to-do, and lo! I fear for youthe doom of a besetting Day.
11/85 O my people! Give full measure and full weight in justice, andwrong not people in respect of their goods. And do not evil in the earth,causing corruption.
11/86 That which Allah leaveth with you is better for you if ye arebelievers; and I am not a keeper over you.
11/87 They said: O Shu'eyb! Doth thy way of prayer command thee thatwe should forsake that which our fathers (used to) worship, or that we(should leave off) doing what we will with our own property. Lo! thou artthe mild, the guide to right behaviour.
11/88 He said: O my people! Bethink you: if I am (acting) on a clearproof from my Lord and He sustaineth me with fair sustenance from Him (howcan I concede aught to you)? I desire not to do behind your backs thatwhich I ask you not to do. I desire naught save reform so far as I am able.My welfare is only in Allah. In Him I trust and unto Him I turn(repentant).
11/89 And, O my people! Let not the schism with me cause you to sinso that there befall you that which befell the folk of Noah and the folk ofHud, and the folk of Salih; and the folk of Lot are not far off from you.
11/90 Ask pardon of your Lord and then turn unto Him (repentant).Lo! my Lord is Merciful, Loving.
11/91 They said: O Shu'eyb! We understand not much of that thoutellest, and lo! we do behold thee weak among us. But for thy family, weshould have stoned thee, for thou art not strong against us.
11/92 He said: O my people! Is my family more to be honoured by youthan Allah? and ye put Him behind you, neglected! Lo! my Lord surroundethwhat ye do.
11/93 And, O my people! Act according to your power, lo! I (too) amacting. Ye will soon know on whom there cometh a doom that will abase him,and who it is that lieth. And watch! Lo! I am a watcher with you.
11/94 And when Our commandment came to pass We saved Shu'eyb andthose who believed with him by a mercy from Us; and the (Awful) Cry seizedthose who did injustice, and morning found them prostrate in theirdwellings,
11/95 As though they had not dwelt there. A far removal for Midian,even as Thamud had been removed afar!
11/96 And verily We sent Moses with Our revelations and a clearwarrant
11/97 Unto Pharaoh and his chiefs, but they did follow the commandof Pharaoh, and the command of Pharaoh was no right guide.
11/98 He will go before his people on the Day of Resurrection andwill lead them to the Fire for watering-place. Ah, hapless is thewatering-place (whither they are) led.
11/99 A curse is made to follow them in the world and on the Day ofResurrection. Hapless is the gift (that will be) given (them).
11/100 That is (something) of the tidings of the townships (whichwere destroyed of old). We relate it unto thee (Muhammad). Some of them arestanding and some (already) reaped.
11/101 We wronged them not, but they did wrong themselves; and theirgods on whom they call beside Allah availed them naught when came thyLord's command; they added to them naught save ruin.
11/102 Even thus is the grasp of thy Lord when He graspeth thetownships while they are doing wrong. Lo! His grasp is painful, verystrong.
11/103 Lo! herein verily there is a portent for those who fear thedoom of the Hereafter. That is a day unto which mankind will be gathered,and that is a day that will be witnessed.
11/104 And We defer it only to a term already reckoned.
11/105 On the day when it cometh no soul will speak except by Hispermission; some among them will be wretched, (others) glad.
11/106 As for those who will be wretched (on that day) they will bein the Fire; sighing and wailing will be their portion therein,
11/107 Abiding there so long as the heavens and the earth endure savefor that which thy Lord willeth. Lo! thy Lord is Doer of what He will.
11/108 And as for those who will be glad (that day) they will be inthe Garden, abiding there so long as the heavens and the earth endure savefor that which thy Lord willeth: a gift unfailing.
11/109 So be not thou in doubt concerning that which these (folk)worship. They worship only as their fathers worshipped aforetime. Lo! weshall pay them their whole due unabated.
11/110 And we verily gave unto Moses the Scripture, and there wasstrife thereupon; and had it not been for a Word that had already goneforth from thy Lord, the case would have been judged between them, and lo!they are in grave doubt concerning it.
11/111 And lo! unto each thy Lord will verily repay his works infull. Lo! He is Informed of what they do.
11/112 So tread thou the straight path as thou art commanded, andthose who turn (unto Allah) with thee, and transgress not. Lo! He is Seerof what ye do.
11/113 And incline not toward those who do wrong lest the Fire touchyou, and ye have no protecting friends against Allah, and afterward yewould not be helped.
11/114 Establish worship at the two ends of the day and in somewatches of the night. Lo! good deeds annul ill-deeds. This is reminder forthe mindful.
11/115 And have patience, (O Muhammad), for lo! Allah loseth not thewages of the good.
11/116 If only there had been among the generations before you menpossessing a remnant (of good sense) to warn (their people) from corruptionin the earth, as did a few of those whom We saved from them! Thewrong-doers followed that by which they were made sapless, and wereguilty.
11/117 In truth thy Lord destroyed not the townships tyrannouslywhile their folk were doing right.
11/118 And if thy Lord had willed, He verily would have made mankindone nation, yet they cease not differing,
11/119 Save him on whom thy Lord hath mercy; and for that He didcreate them. And the Word of thy Lord hath been fulfilled: Verily I shallfill hell with the jinn and mankind together.
11/120 And all that We relate unto thee of the story of themessengers is in order that thereby We may make firm thy heart. And hereinhath come unto thee the Truth and an exhortation and a reminder forbelievers.
11/121 And say unto those who believe not: Act according to yourpower. Lo! We (too) are acting.
11/122 And wait! Lo! We (too) are waiting.
11/123 And Allah's is the Invisible of the heavens and the earth, andunto Him the whole matter will be returned. So worship Him and put thytrust in Him. Lo! thy Lord is not unaware of what ye (mortals) do.
