28/1 Ta. Sin. Mim.
28/2 These are revelations of the Scripture that maketh plain.
28/3 We narrate unto thee (somewhat) of the story of Moses andPharaoh with truth, for folk who believe.
28/4 Lo! Pharaoh exalted himself in the earth and made its peoplecastes. A tribe among them he oppressed, killing their sons and sparingtheir women. Lo! he was of those who work corruption.
28/5 And We desired to show favour unto those who were oppressed inthe earth, and to make them examples and to make them the inheritors,
28/6 And to establish them in the earth, and to show Pharaoh andHaman and their hosts that which they feared from them.
28/7 And We inspired the mother of Moses, saying: Suckle him and,when thou fearest for him, then cast him into the river and fear not norgrieve. Lo! We shall bring him back unto thee and shall make him (one) ofOur messengers.
28/8 And the family of Pharaoh took him up, that he might becomefor them an enemy and a sorrow, Lo! Pharaoh and Haman and their hosts wereever sinning.
28/9 And the wife of Pharaoh said: (He will be) a consolation forme and for thee. Kill him not. Peradventure he may be of use to us, or wemay choose him for a son. And they perceived not.
28/10 And the heart of the mother of Moses became void, and shewould have betrayed him if We had not fortified her heart, that she mightbe of the believers.
28/11 And she said unto his sister: Trace him. So she observed himfrom afar, and they perceived not.
28/12 And We had before forbidden foster-mothers for him, so shesaid: Shall I show you a household who will rear him for you and take careof him?
28/13 So We restored him to his mother that she might be comfortedand not grieve, and that she might know that the promise of Allah is true.But most of them know not.
28/14 And when he reached his full strength and was ripe, We gavehim wisdom and knowledge. Thus do We reward the good.
28/15 And he entered the city at a time of carelessness of its folk,and he found therein two men fighting, one of his own caste, and the otherof his enemies; and he who was of his caste asked him for help against himwho was of his enemies. So Moses struck him with his fist and killed him.He said: This is of the devil's doing. Lo! he is an enemy, a meremisleader.
28/16 He said: My Lord! Lo! I have wronged my soul, so forgive me.Then He forgave him. Lo! He is the Forgiving, the Merciful.
28/17 He said: My Lord! Forasmuch as Thou hast favoured me, I willnevermore be a supporter of the guilty.
28/18 And morning found him in the city, fearing, vigilant, whenbehold! he who had appealed to him the day before cried out to him forhelp. Moses said unto him: Lo! thou art indeed a mere hothead.
28/19 And when he would have fallen upon the man who was an enemyunto them both, he said: O Moses! Wouldst thou kill me as thou didst kill aperson yesterday. Thou wouldst be nothing but a tyrant in the land, thouwouldst not be of the reformers.
28/20 And a man came from the uttermost part of the city, running.He said: O Moses! Lo! the chiefs take counsel against thee to slay thee;therefor escape. Lo! I am of those who give thee good advice.
28/21 So he escaped from thence, fearing, vigilant. He said: MyLord! Deliver me from the wrongdoing folk.
28/22 And when he turned his face toward Midian, he said:Peradventure my Lord will guide me in the right road.
28/23 And when he came unto the water of Midian he found there awhole tribe of men, watering. And he found apart from them two womenkeeping back (their flocks). He said: What aileth you? The two said: Wecannot give (our flocks) to drink till the shepherds return from the water;and our father is a very old man.
28/24 So he watered (their flock) for them. Then he turned asideinto the shade, and said: My Lord! I am needy of whatever good Thou sendestdown for me.
28/25 Then there came unto him one of the two women, walking shyly.She said: Lo! my father biddeth thee, that he may reward thee with apayment for that thou didst water (the flock) for us. Then, when he cameunto him and told him the (whole) story, he said: Fear not! Thou hastescaped from the wrongdoing folk.
28/26 One of the two women said: O my father! Hire him! For the best(man) that thou canst hire in the strong, the trustworthy.
28/27 He said: Lo! I fain would marry thee to one of these twodaughters of mine on condition that thou hirest thyself to me for (the termof) eight pilgrimages. Then if thou completest ten it will be of thine ownaccord, for I would not make it hard for thee. Allah willing, thou wiltfind me of the righteous.
28/28 He said: That (is settled) between thee and me. Whichever ofthe two terms I fulfil, there will be no injustice to me, and Allah isSurety over what we say.
28/29 Then, when Moses had fulfilled the term, and was travellingwith his housefolk, he saw in the distance a fire and said unto hishousefolk: Bide ye (here). Lo! I see in the distance a fire; peradventure Ishall bring you tidings thence, or a brand from the fire that ye may warmyourselves.
28/30 And when he reached it, he was called from the right side ofthe valley in the blessed field, from the tree: O Moses! Lo! I, even I, amAllah, the Lord of the Worlds;
28/31 Throw down thy staff. And when he saw it writhing as it hadbeen a demon, he turned to flee headlong, (and it was said unto him): OMoses! Draw nigh and fear not. Lo! thou art of those who are secure.
28/32 Thrust thy hand into the bosom of thy robe it will come forthwhite without hurt. And guard thy heart from fear. Then these shall be twoproofs from your Lord unto Pharaoh and his chiefs. Lo! they are evil-livingfolk.
28/33 He said: My Lord! Lo! I killed a man among them and I fearthat they will kill me.
28/34 My brother Aaron is more eloquent than me in speech. Thereforsend him with me as a helper to confirm me. Lo! I fear that they will givethe lie to me.
28/35 He said: We will strengthen thine arm with thy brother, and Wewill give unto you both power so that they cannot reach you for Ourportents. Ye twain, and those who follow you, will be the winners.
28/36 But when Moses came unto them with Our clear tokens, theysaid: This is naught but invented magic. We never heard of this among ourfathers of old.
28/37 And Moses said: My Lord is Best Aware of him who bringethguidance from His presence, and whose will be the sequel of the Home (ofbliss). Lo! wrong-doers will not be successful.
28/38 And Pharaoh said: O chiefs! I know not that ye have a godother than me, so kindle for me (a fire), O Haman, to bake the mud; and setup for me a lofty tower in order that I may survey the god of Moses; andlo! I deem him of the liars.
28/39 And he and his hosts were haughty in the land without right,and deemed that they would never be brought back to Us.
28/40 Therefor We seized him and his hosts, and abandoned them untothe sea. Behold the nature of the consequence for evil-doers!
28/41 And We made them patterns that invite unto the Fire, and onthe Day of Resurrection they will not be helped.
28/42 And We made a curse to follow them in this world, and on theDay of Resurrection they will be among the hateful.
28/43 And We verily gave the Scripture unto Moses after We haddestroyed the generations of old: clear testimonies for mankind, and aguidance and a mercy, that haply they might reflect.
28/44 And thou (Muhammad) wast not on the western side (of theMount) when We expounded unto Moses the commandment, and thou wast notamong those present;
28/45 But We brought forth generations, and their lives dragged onfor them. And thou wast not a dweller in Midian, reciting unto them Ourrevelations, but We kept sending (messengers to men).
28/46 And thou was not beside the Mount when We did call; but (theknowledge of it is) a mercy from thy Lord that thou mayst warn a folk untowhom no warner came before thee, that haply they may give heed.
28/47 Otherwise, if disaster should afflict them because of thatwhich their own hands have sent before (them), they might say: Our Lord!Why sentest Thou no messenger unto us, that we might have followed Thyrevelations and been of the believers?
28/48 But when there came unto them the Truth from Our presence,they said: Why is he not given the like of what was given unto Moses? Didthey not disbelieve in that which was given unto Moses of old? They say:Two magics that support each other; and they say: Lo! in both we aredisbelievers.
28/49 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Then bring a scripture from thepresence of Allah that giveth clearer guidance than these two (that) I mayfollow it, if ye are truthful.
28/50 And if they answer thee not, then know that what they followis their lusts. And who goeth farther astray than he who followeth his lustwithout guidance from Allah. Lo! Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
28/51 And now verily We have caused the Word to reach them, thathaply they may give heed.
28/52 Those unto whom We gave the Scripture before it, they believein it,
28/53 And when it is recited unto them, they say: We believe in it.Lo! it is the Truth from our Lord. Lo! even before it we were of those whosurrender (unto Him).
28/54 These will be given their reward twice over, because they aresteadfast and repel evil with good, and spend of that wherewith We haveprovided them,
28/55 And when they hear vanity they withdraw from it and say: Untous our works and unto you your works. Peace be unto you! We desire not theignorant.
28/56 Lo! thou (O Muhammad) guidest not whom thou lovest, but Allahguideth whom He will. And He is Best Aware of those who walk aright.
28/57 And they say: If we were to follow the Guidance with thee weshould be torn out of our land. Have We not established for them a suresanctuary, whereunto the produce of all things is brought (in trade), aprovision from Our presence? But most of them know not.
28/58 And how many a community have We destroyed that was thanklessfor its means of livelihood! And yonder are their dwellings, which have notbeen inhabited after them save a little. And We, even We, were theinheritors.
28/59 And never did thy Lord destroy the townships, till He hadraised up in their mother(-town) a messenger reciting unto them Ourrevelations. And never did We destroy the townships unless the folk thereofwere evil-doers.
28/60 And whatsoever ye have been given is a comfort of the life ofthe world and an ornament thereof; and that which Allah hath is better andmore lasting. Have ye then no sense?
28/61 Is he whom We have promised a fair promise which he will find(true) like him whom We suffer to enjoy awhile the comfort of the life ofthe world, then on the Day of Resurrection he will be of those arraigned?
28/62 On the day when He will call unto them and say: Where are Mypartners whom ye imagined?
28/63 Those concerning whom the Word will have come true will say:Our Lord! These are they whom we led astray. We led them astray even as weourselves were astray. We declare our innocence before Thee: us they neverworshipped.
28/64 And it will be said: Cry unto your (so-called) partners (ofAllah). And they will cry unto them, and they will give no answer untothem, and they will see the Doom. Ah, if they had but been guided!
28/65 And on the Day when He will call unto them and say: Whatanswer gave ye to the messengers?
28/66 On that day (all) tidings will be dimmed for them, nor willthey ask one of another,
28/67 But as for him who shall repent and believe and do right, hehaply may be one of the successful.
28/68 Thy Lord bringeth to pass what He willeth and chooseth. Theyhave never any choice. Glorified be Allah and Exalted above all that theyassociate (with Him)!
28/69 And thy Lord knoweth what their breasts conceal, and what theypublish.
28/70 And He is Allah; there is no Allah save Him. His is all praisein the former and the latter (state), and His is the command, and unto Himye will be brought back.
28/71 Say: Have ye thought, if Allah made night everlasting for youtill the Day of Resurrection, who is a god beside Allah who could bring youlight? Will ye not then hear?
28/72 Say: Have ye thought, if Allah made day everlasting for youtill the Day of Resurrection, who is a god beside Allah who could bring younight wherein ye rest? Will ye not then see?
28/73 Of His mercy hath He appointed for you night and day, thattherein ye may rest, and that ye may seek His bounty, and that haply ye maybe thankful.
28/74 And on the Day when He shall call unto them and say: Where areMy partners whom ye pretended?
28/75 And We shall take out from every nation a witness and We shallsay: Bring your proof. Then they will know that Allah hath the Truth, andall that they invented will have failed them.
28/76 Now Korah was of Moses' folk, but he oppressed them; and Wegave him so much treasure that the stores thereof would verily have been aburden for a troop of mighty men. When his own folk said unto him: Exultnot; lo! Allah loveth not the exultant;
28/77 But seek the abode of the Hereafter in that which Allah hathgiven thee and neglect not thy portion of the world, and be thou kind evenas Allah hath been kind to thee, and seek not corruption in the earth; lo!Allah loveth not corrupters,
28/78 He said: I have been given it only on account of knowledge Ipossess. Knew he not that Allah had destroyed already of the generationsbefore him men who were mightier than him in strength and greater inrespect of following? The guilty are not questioned of their sins.
28/79 Then went he forth before his people in his pomp. Those whowere desirous of the life of the world said: Ah, would that we had the likeof what hath been given unto Korah! Lo! he is lord of rare good fortune.
28/80 But those who had been given knowledge said: Woe unto you! Thereward of Allah for him who believeth and doeth right is better, and onlythe steadfast will obtain it.
28/81 So We caused the earth to swallow him and his dwelling-place.Then he had no host to help him against Allah, nor was he of those who cansave themselves.
28/82 And morning found those who had coveted his place butyesterday crying: Ah, welladay! Allah enlargeth the provision for whom Hewill of His slaves and straiteneth it (for whom He will). If Allah had notbeen gracious unto us He would have caused it to swallow us (also). Ah,welladay! the disbelievers never prosper.
28/83 As for that Abode of the Hereafter We assign it unto those whoseek not oppression in the earth, nor yet corruption. The sequel is forthose who ward off (evil).
28/84 Whoso bringeth a good deed, he will have better than the same;while as for him who bringeth an ill-deed, those who do ill-deeds will berequited only what they did.
28/85 Lo! He Who hath given thee the Qur'an for a law will surelybring thee home again. Say: My Lord is Best Aware of him who bringethguidance and him who is in error manifest.
28/86 Thou hadst no hope that the Scripture would be inspired inthee; but it is a mercy from thy Lord, so never be a helper to thedisbelievers.
28/87 And let them not divert thee from the revelations of Allahafter they have been sent down unto thee; but call (mankind) unto thy Lord,and be not of those who ascribe partners (unto Him).
28/88 And cry not unto any other god along with Allah. There is noAllah save Him. Everything will perish save His countenance. His is thecommand, and unto Him ye will be brought back.
