18/1 Praise be to Allah Who hath revealed the Scripture unto Hisslave, and hath not placed therein any crookedness,
18/2 (But hath made it) straight, to give warning of sternpunishment from Him, and to bring unto the believers who do good works thenews that theirs will be a fair reward,
18/3 Wherein they will abide for ever;
18/4 And to warn those who say: Allah hath chosen a son,
18/5 (A thing) whereof they have no knowledge, nor (had) theirfathers, Dreadful is the word that cometh out of their mouths. They speaknaught but a lie.
18/6 Yet it may be, if they believe not in this statement, thatthou (Muhammad) wilt torment thy soul with grief over their footsteps.
18/7 Lo! We have placed all that is on the earth as an ornamentthereof that We may try them: which of them is best in conduct.
18/8 And lo! We shall make all that is thereon a barren mound.
18/9 Or deemest thou that the People of the Cave and theInscription are a wonder among Our portents?
18/10 When the young men fled for refuge to the Cave and said: OurLord! Give us mercy from Thy presence, and shape for us right conduct inour plight.
18/11 Then We sealed up their hearing in the Cave for a number ofyears.
18/12 And afterward We raised them up that We might know which ofthe two parties would best calculate the time that they had tarried.
18/13 We narrate unto thee their story with truth. Lo! they wereyoung men who believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance.
18/14 And We made firm their hearts when they stood forth and said:Our Lord is the Lord of the heavens and the earth. We cry unto no Allahbeside Him, for then should we utter an enormity.
18/15 These, our people, have chosen (other) gods beside Him thoughthey bring no clear warrant (vouchsafed) to them. And who doth greaterwrong than he who inventeth a lie concerning Allah?
18/16 And when ye withdraw from them and that which they worshipexcept Allah, then seek refuge in the Cave; your Lord will spread for youof His mercy and will prepare for you a pillow in your plight.
18/17 And thou mightest have seen the sun when it rose move awayfrom their cave to the right, and when it set go past them on the left, andthey were in the cleft thereof. That was (one) of the portents of Allah. Hewhom Allah guideth, he indeed is led aright, and he whom He sendeth astray,for him thou wilt not find a guiding friend.
18/18 And thou wouldst have deemed them waking though they wereasleep, and We caused them to turn over to the right and the left, andtheir dog stretching out his paws on the threshold. If thou hadst observedthem closely thou hadst assuredly turned away from them in flight, andhadst been filled with awe of them.
18/19 And in like manner We awakened them that they might questionone another. A speaker from among them said: How long have ye tarried? Theysaid: We have  tarried a day or some part of a day, (Others) said: YourLord best knoweth what ye have tarried. Now send one of you with this yoursilver coin unto the city, and let him see what food is purest there andbring you a supply thereof. Let him be courteous and let no man know ofyou.
18/20 For they, if they should come to know of you, will stone youor turn you back to their religion; then ye will never prosper.
18/21 And in like manner We disclosed them (to the people of thecity) that they might know that the promise of Allah is true, and that, asfor the Hour, there is no doubt concerning it. When (the people of thecity) disputed of their case among themselves, they said: Build over them abuilding; their Lord knoweth best concerning them. Those who won theirpoint said: We verily shall build a place of worship over them.
18/22 (Some) will say: They were three, their dog the fourth, and(some) say: Five, their dog the sixth, guessing at random; and (some) say:Seven, and their dog the eighth. Say (O Muhammad): My Lord is Best Aware oftheir number. None knoweth them save a few. So contend not concerning themexcept with an outward contending, and ask not any of them to pronounceconcerning them.
18/23 And say not of anything: Lo! I shall do that tomorrow,
18/24 Except if Allah will. And remember thy Lord when thouforgettest, and say: It may be that my Lord guideth me unto a nearer way oftruth than this.
18/25 And (it is said) they tarried in their Cave three hundredyears and add nine.
18/26 Say: Allah is Best Aware how long they tarried. His is theInvisible of the heavens and the earth. How clear of sight is He and keenof hearing! They have no protecting friend beside Him, and He maketh noneto share in His government.
18/27 And recite that which hath been revealed unto thee of theScripture of thy Lord. There is none who can change His words, and thouwilt find no refuge beside Him.
18/28 Restrain thyself along with those who cry unto their Lord atmorn and evening, seeking His Countenance; and let not thine eyes overlookthem, desiring the pomp of the life of the world; and obey not him whoseheart We have made heedless of Our remembrance, who followeth his own lustand whose case hath been abandoned.
18/29 Say: (It is) the truth from the Lord of you (all). Thenwhosoever will, let him believe, and whosoever will, let him disbelieve.Lo! We have prepared for disbelievers Fire. Its tent encloseth them. Ifthey ask for showers, they will be showered with water like to molten leadwhich burneth the faces. Calamitous the drink and ill the resting-place!
18/30 Lo! as for those who believe and do good works - Lo! We suffernot the reward of one whose work is goodly to be lost.
18/31 As for such, theirs will be Gardens of Eden, wherein riversflow beneath them; therein they will be given armlets of gold and will weargreen robes of finest silk and gold embroidery, reclining upon thronetherein. Blest the reward, and fair the resting-place!
18/32 Coin for them a similitude: Two men, unto one of whom We hadassigned two gardens of grapes, and We had surrounded both with date-palmsand had put between them tillage.
18/33 Each of the gardens gave its fruit and withheld naughtthereof. And We caused a river to gush forth therein.
18/34 And he had fruit. And he said unto his comrade, when he spakewith him: I am more than thee in wealth, and stronger in respect of men.
18/35 And he went into his garden, while he (thus) wronged himself.He said: I think not that all this will ever perish.
18/36 I think not that the Hour will ever come, and if indeed I ambrought back unto my Lord I surely shall find better than this as aresort.
18/37 His comrade, when he (thus) spake with him, exclaimed:Disbelievest thou in Him Who created thee of dust, then of a drop (ofseed), and then fashioned thee a man?
18/38 But He is Allah, my Lord, and I ascribe unto my Lord nopartner.
18/39 If only, when thou enteredst thy garden, thou hadst said: Thatwhich Allah willeth (will come to pass)! There is no strength save inAllah! Though thou seest me as less than thee in wealth and children,
18/40 Yet it may be that my Lord will give me better than thygarden, and will send on it a bolt from heaven, and some morning it will bea smooth hillside,
18/41 Or some morning the water thereof will be lost in the earth sothat thou canst not make search for it.
18/42 And his fruit was beset (with destruction). Then began he towring his hands for all that he had spent upon it, when (now) it was allruined on its trellises, and to say: Would that I had ascribed no partnerto my Lord!
18/43 And he had no troop of men to help him as against Allah, norcould he save himself.
18/44 In this case is protection only from Allah, the True, He isBest for reward, and best for consequence.
18/45 And coin for them the similitude of the life of the world aswater which We send down from the sky, and the vegetation of the earthmingleth with it and then becometh dry twigs that the winds scatter. Allahis able to do all things.
18/46 Wealth and children are an ornament of the life of the world.But the good deeds which endure are better in thy Lord's sight for reward,and better in respect of hope.
18/47 And (bethink you of) the Day when we remove the hills and yesee the earth emerging, and We gather them together so as to leave not oneof them behind.
18/48 And they are set before thy Lord in ranks (and it is said untothem): Now verily have ye come unto Us as We created you at the first. Butye thought that We had set no tryst for you.
18/49 And the Book is placed, and thou seest the guilty fearful ofthat which is therein, and they say: What kind of a Book is this thatleaveth not a small thing nor a great thing but hath counted it! And theyfind all that they did confronting them, and thy Lord wrongeth no-one.
18/50 And (remember) when We said unto the angels: Fall prostratebefore Adam, and they fell prostrate, all save Iblis. He was of the jinn,so he rebelled against his Lord's command. Will ye choose him and his seedfor your protecting friends instead of Me, when they are an enemy unto you?Calamitous is the exchange for evil-doers.
18/51 I made them not to witness the creation of the heavens and theearth, nor their own creation; nor choose I misleaders for (My) helpers.
18/52 And (be mindful of) the Day when He will say: Call thosepartners of Mine whom ye pretended. Then they will cry unto them, but theywill not hear their prayer, and We shall set a gulf of doom between them.
18/53 And the guilty behold the Fire and know that they are about tofall therein, and they find no way of escape thence.
18/54 And verily We have displayed for mankind in this Qur'an allmanner of similitudes, but man is more than anything contentious.
18/55 And naught hindereth mankind from believing when the guidancecometh unto them, and from asking forgiveness of their Lord unless (it bethat they wish) that the judgment of the men of old should come upon themor (that) they should be confronted with the Doom.
18/56 We send not the messengers save as bearers of good news andwarners. Those who disbelieve contend with falsehood in order to refute theTruth thereby. And they take Our revelations and that wherewith they arethreatened as a jest.
18/57 And who doth greater wrong than he who hath been reminded ofthe revelations of his Lord, yet turneth away from them and forgetteth whathis hands send forward (to the Judgment)? Lo! on their hearts We haveplaced coverings so that they understand not, and in their ears a deafness.And though thou call them to the guidance, in that case they can never beled aright.
18/58 Thy Lord is the Forgiver, Full of Mercy. If He took them totask (now) for what they earn, He would hasten on the doom for them; buttheirs is an appointed term from which they will find no escape.
18/59 And (all) those townships! We destroyed them when they didwrong, and We appointed a fixed time for their destruction.
18/60 And when Moses said unto his servant: I will not give up untilI reach the point where the two rivers meet, though I march on for ages.
18/61 And when they reached the point where the two met, they forgottheir fish, and it took its way into the waters, being free.
18/62 And when they had gone further, he said unto his servant:Bring us our breakfast. Verily we have found fatigue in this our journey.
18/63 He said: Didst thou see, when we took refuge on the rock, andI forgot the fish - and none but Satan caused me to forget to mention it -it took its way into the waters by a marvel.
18/64 He said: This is that which we have been seeking. So theyretraced their steps again.
18/65 Then found they one of Our slaves, unto whom We had givenmercy from Us, and had taught him knowledge from Our presence.
18/66 Moses said unto him: May I follow thee, to the end that thoumayst teach me right conduct of that which thou hast been taught?
18/67 He said: Lo! thou canst not bear with me.
18/68 How canst thou bear with that whereof thou canst not compassany knowledge?
18/69 He said: Allah willing, thou shalt find me patient and I shallnot in aught gainsay thee.
18/70 He said: Well, if thou go with me, ask me not concerning aughttill I myself make mention of it unto thee.
18/71 So they twain set out till, when they were in the ship, hemade a hole therein. (Moses) said: Hast thou made a hole therein to drownthe folk thereof? Thou verily hast done a dreadful thing.
18/72 He said: Did I not tell thee that thou couldst not bear withme?
18/73 (Moses) said: Be not wroth with me that I forgot, and be nothard upon me for my fault.
18/74 So they twain journeyed on till, when they met a lad, he slewhim. (Moses) said: What! Hast thou slain an innocent soul who hath slain noman? Verily thou hast done a horrid thing.
18/75 He said: Did I not tell thee that thou couldst not bear withme?
18/76 (Moses) said: If I ask thee after this concerning aught, keepnot company with me. Thou hast received an excuse from me.
18/77 So they twain journeyed on till, when they came unto the folkof a certain township, they asked its folk for food, but they refused tomake them guests. And they found therein a wall upon the point of fallinginto ruin, and he repaired it. (Moses) said: If thou hadst wished, thoucouldst have taken payment for it.
18/78 He said: This is the parting between thee and me! I willannounce unto thee the interpretation of that thou couldst not bear withpatience.
18/79 As for the ship, it belonged to poor people working on theriver, and I wished to mar it, for there was a king behind them who istaking every ship by force.
18/80 And as for the lad, his parents were believers and we fearedlest he should oppress them by rebellion and disbelief.
18/81 And we intended that their Lord should change him for them forone better in purity and nearer to mercy.
18/82 And as for the wall, it belonged to two orphan boys in thecity, and there was beneath it a treasure belonging to them, and theirfather had been righteous, and thy Lord intended that they should come totheir full strength and should bring forth their treasure as a mercy fromtheir Lord; and I did it not upon my own command. Such is theinterpretation of that wherewith thou couldst not bear.
18/83 They will ask thee of Dhu'l-Qarneyn. Say: I shall recite untoyou a remembrance of him.
18/84 Lo! We made him strong in the land and gave him unto everything a road.
18/85 And he followed a road
18/86 Till, when he reached the setting-place of the sun, he foundit setting in a muddy spring, and found a people thereabout. We said: ODhu'l-Qarneyn! Either punish or show them kindness.
18/87 He said: As for him who doeth wrong, we shall punish him, andthen he will be brought back unto his Lord, Who will punish him with awfulpunishment!
18/88 But as for him who believeth and doeth right, good will be hisreward, and We shall speak unto him a mild command.
18/89 Then he followed a road
18/90 Till, when he reached the rising-place of the sun, he found itrising on a people for whom We had appointed no shelter therefrom.
18/91 So (it was). And We knew all concerning him.
18/92 Then he followed a road
18/93 Till, when he came between the two mountains, he found upontheir hither side a folk that scarce could understand a saying.
18/94 They said: O Dhu'l-Qarneyn! Lo! Gog and Magog are spoiling theland. So may we pay thee tribute on condition that thou set a barrierbetween us and them?
18/95 He said: That wherein my Lord hath established me is better(than your tribute). Do but help me with strength (of men), I will setbetween you and them a bank.
18/96 Give me pieces of iron - till, when he had levelled up (thegap) between the cliffs, he said: Blow! - till, when he had made it a fire,he said: Bring me molten copper to pour thereon.
18/97 And (Gog and Magog) were not able to surmount, nor could theypierce (it).
18/98 He said: This is a mercy from my Lord; but when the promise ofmy Lord cometh to pass, He will lay it low, for the promise of my Lord istrue.
18/99 And on that day we shall let some of them surge againstothers, and the Trumpet will be blown. Then We shall gather them togetherin one gathering.
18/100 On that day we shall present hell to the disbelievers, plainto view,
18/101 Those whose eyes were hoodwinked from My reminder, and whocould not bear to hear.
18/102 Do the disbelievers reckon that they can choose My bondmen asprotecting friends beside Me? Lo! We have prepared hell as a welcome forthe disbelievers.
18/103 Say: Shall We inform you who will be the greatest losers bytheir works?
18/104 Those whose effort goeth astray in the life of the world, andyet they reckon that they do good work.
18/105 Those are they who disbelieve in the revelations of their Lordand in the meeting with Him. Therefor their works are vain, and on the Dayof Resurrection We assign no weight to them.
18/106 That is their reward: hell, because they disbelieved, and madea jest of Our revelations and Our messengers.
18/107 Lo! those who believe and do good works, theirs are theGardens of Paradise for welcome,
18/108 Wherein they will abide, with no desire to be removed fromthence.
18/109 Say: Though the sea became ink for the Words of my Lord,verily the sea would be used up before the words of my Lord were exhausted,even though We brought the like thereof to help.
18/110 Say: I am only a mortal like you. My Lord inspireth in me thatyour Allah is only One Allah. And whoever hopeth for the meeting with his Lord,let him do righteous work, and make none sharer of the worship due unto hisLord.
