5/1 O ye who believe! Fulfil your indentures. The beast of cattleis made lawful unto you (for food) except that which is announced unto you(herein), game being unlawful when ye are on the pilgrimage. Lo! Allahordaineth that which pleaseth Him.
5/2 O ye who believe! Profane not Allah's monuments nor the SacredMonth nor the offerings nor the garlands, nor those repairing to the SacredHouse, seeking the grace and pleasure of their Lord. But when ye have leftthe sacred territory, then go hunting (if ye will). And let not your hatredof a folk who (once) stopped your going to the inviolable place of worshipseduce you to transgress; but help ye one another unto righteousness andpious duty. Help not one another unto sin and transgression, but keep yourduty to Allah. Lo! Allah is severe in punishment.
5/3 Forbidden unto you (for food) are carrion and blood andswineflesh, and that which hath been dedicated unto any other than Allah,and the strangled, and the dead through beating, and the dead throughfalling from a height, and that which hath been killed by (the goring of)horns, and the devoured of wild beasts, saving that which ye make lawful(by the death-stroke), and that which hath been immolated unto idols. And(forbidden is it) that ye swear by the divining arrows. This is anabomination. This day are those who disbelieve in despair of (ever harming)your religion; so fear them not, fear Me! This day have I perfected yourreligion for you and completed My favour unto you, and have chosen for youas religion al-Islam. Whoso is forced by hunger, not by will, to sin: (forhim) lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/4 They ask thee (O Muhammad) what is made lawful for them. Say:(all) good things are made lawful for you. And those beasts and birds ofprey which ye have trained as hounds are trained, ye teach them that whichAllah taught you; so eat of that which they catch for you and mentionAllah's name upon it, and observe your duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is swift totake account.
5/5 This day are (all) good things made lawful for you. The foodof those who have received the Scripture is lawful for you, and your foodis lawful for them. And so are the virtuous women of the believers and thevirtuous women of those who received the Scripture before you (lawful foryou) when ye give them their marriage portions and live with them inhonour, not in fornication, nor taking them as secret concubines. Whosodenieth the faith, his work is vain and he will be among the losers in theHereafter.
5/6 O ye who believe! When ye rise up for prayer, wash you faces,and your hands up to the elbows, and lightly rub your heads and (wash) yourfeet up to the ankles. And if ye are unclean, purify yourselves. And if yeare sick or on a journey, or one of you cometh from the closet, or ye havehad contact with women, and ye find not water, then go to clean, highground and rub your faces and your hands with some of it. Allah would notplace a burden on you, but He would purify you and would perfect His graceupon you, that ye may give thanks.
5/7 Remember Allah's grace upon you and His covenant by which Hebound you when ye said: We hear and we obey; And keep your duty to Allah.Lo! He knoweth what is in the breasts (of men).
5/8 O ye who believe! Be steadfast witnesses for Allah in equity,and let not hatred of any people seduce you that ye deal not justly. Dealjustly, that is nearer to your duty. Observe your duty to Allah. Lo! Allahis Informed of what ye do.
5/9 Allah hath promised those who believe and do good works:Theirs will be forgiveness and immense reward.
5/10 And they who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, such arerightful owners of hell.
5/11 O ye who believe! Remember Allah's favour unto you, how apeople were minded to stretch out their hands against you but He withheldtheir hands from you; and keep your duty to Allah. In Allah let believersput their trust.
5/12 Allah made a covenant of old with the Children of Israel andWe raised among them twelve chieftains, and Allah said: Lo! I am with you.If ye establish worship and pay the poor-due, and believe in My messengersand support them, and lend unto Allah a kindly loan, surely I shall remityour sins, and surely I shall bring you into Gardens underneath whichrivers flow. Whoso among you disbelieveth after this will go astray from aplain road.
5/13 And because of their breaking their covenant, We have cursedthem and made hard their hearts. They change words from their context andforget a part of that whereof they were admonished. Thou wilt not cease todiscover treachery from all save a few of them. But bear with them andpardon them. Lo! Allah loveth the kindly.
5/14 And with those who say: "Lo! we are Christians," We made acovenant, but they forgot a part of that whereof they were admonished.Therefor We have stirred up enmity and hatred among them till the Day ofResurrection, when Allah will inform them of their handiwork.
5/15 O People of the Scripture! Now hath Our messenger come untoyou, expounding unto you much of that which ye used to hide in theScripture, and forgiving much. now hath come unto you light from Allah andplain Scripture,
5/16 Whereby Allah guideth him who seeketh His good pleasure untopaths of peace. He bringeth them out of darkness unto light by His decree,and guideth them unto a straight path.
5/17 They indeed have disbelieved who say: Lo! Allah is theMessiah, son of Mary. Say: Who then can do aught against Allah, if He hadwilled to destroy the Messiah son of Mary, and his mother and everyone onearth? Allah's is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth and all thatis between them. He createth what He will. And Allah is Able to do allthings.
5/18 The Jews and Christians say: We are sons of Allah and Hisloved ones. Say: Why then doth He chastise you for your sins? Nay, ye arebut mortals of His creating. He forgiveth whom He will, and chastiseth whomHe will. Allah's is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth and allthat is between them, and unto Him is the journeying.
5/19 O People of the Scripture! Now hath Our messenger come untoyou to make things plain unto you after an interval (of cessation) of themessengers, lest ye should say: There came not unto us a messenger of cheernor any warner. Now hath a messenger of cheer and a warner come unto you.Allah is Able to do all things.
5/20 And (remember) when Moses said unto his people: O my people!Remember Allah's favour unto you, how He placed among you prophets, and Hemade you kings, and gave you that (which) He gave not to any (other) of(His) creatures.
5/21 O my people! Go into the holy land which Allah hath ordainedfor you. Turn not in flight, for surely ye turn back as losers:
5/22 They said: O Moses! Lo! a giant people (dwell) therein and lo!we go not in till they go forth from thence. When they go forth fromthence, then we will enter (not till then).
5/23 Then out spake two of those who feared (their Lord, men) untowhom Allah had been gracious: Enter in upon them by the gate, for if yeenter by it, lo! ye will be victorious. So put your trust (in Allah) if yeare indeed believers.
5/24 They said: O Moses! We will never enter (the land) while theyare in it. So go thou and thy Lord and fight! We will sit here.
5/25 He said: My Lord! I have control of none but myself and mybrother, so distinguish between us and the wrong-doing folk.
5/26 (Their Lord) said: For this the land will surely be forbiddenthem for forty years that they will wander in the earth, bewildered. Sogrieve not over the wrongdoing folk.
5/27 But recite unto them with truth the tale of the two sons ofAdam, how they offered each a sacrifice, and it was accepted from the oneof them and it was not accepted from the other. (The one) said: I willsurely kill thee. (The other) answered: Allah accepteth only from those whoward off (evil).
5/28 Even if thou stretch out thy hand against me to kill me, Ishall not stretch out my hand against thee to kill thee, lo! I fear Allah,the Lord of the Worlds.
5/29 Lo! I would rather thou shouldst bear the punishment of thesin against me and thine own sin and become one of the owners of the fire.That is the reward of evil-doers.
5/30 But (the other's) mind imposed on him the killing of hisbrother, so he slew him and became one of the losers.
5/31 Then Allah sent a raven scratching up the ground, to show himhow to hide his brother's naked corpse. He said: Woe unto me! Am I not ableto be as this raven and so hide my brother's naked corpse? And he becamerepentant.
5/32 For that cause We decreed for the Children of Israel thatwhosoever killeth a human being for other than manslaughter or corruptionin the earth, it shall be as if he had killed all mankind, and whoso saveththe life of one, it shall be as if he had saved the life of all mankind.Our messengers came unto them of old with clear proofs (of Allah'sSovereignty), but afterwards lo! many of them became prodigals in theearth.
5/33 The only reward of those who make war upon Allah and Hismessenger and strive after corruption in the land will be that they will bekilled or crucified, or have their hands and feet on alternate sides cutoff, or will be expelled out of the land. Such will be their degradation inthe world, and in the Hereafter theirs will be an awful doom;
5/34 Save those who repent before ye overpower them. For know thatAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/35 O ye who believe! Be mindful of your duty to Allah, and seekthe way of approach unto Him, and strive in His way in order that ye maysucceed.
5/36 As for those who disbelieve, lo! if all that is in the earthwere theirs, and as much again therewith, to ransom them from the doom onthe Day of Resurrection, it would not be accepted from them. Theirs will bea painful doom.
5/37 They will wish to come forth from the Fire, but they will notcome forth from it. Theirs will be a lasting doom.
5/38 As for the thief, both male and female, cut off their hands.It is the reward of their own deeds, an exemplary punishment from Allah.Allah is Mighty, Wise.
5/39 But whoso repenteth after his wrongdoing and amendeth, lo!Allah will relent toward him. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/40 Knowest thou not that unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty ofthe heavens and the earth? He punisheth whom He will, and forgiveth whom Hewill. Allah is Able to do all things.
5/41 O Messenger! Let not them grieve thee who vie one with anotherin the race to disbelief, of such as say with their mouths: "We believe,"but their hearts believe not, and of the Jews: listeners for the sake offalsehood, listeners on behalf of other folk who come not unto thee,changing words from their context and saying: If this be given unto you,receive it, but if this be not given unto you, then beware! He whom Allahdoometh unto sin, thou (by thine efforts) wilt avail him naught againstAllah. Those are they for whom the Will of Allah is that He cleanse nottheir hearts. Theirs in the world will be ignominy, and in the Hereafter anawful doom;
5/42 Listeners for the sake of falsehood! Greedy for illicit gain!If then they have recourse unto thee (Muhammad) judge between them ordisclaim jurisdiction. If thou disclaimest jurisdiction, then they cannotharm thee at all. But if thou judgest, judge between them with equity. Lo!Allah loveth the equitable.
5/43 How come they unto thee for judgment when they have the Torah,wherein Allah hath delivered judgment (for them)? Yet even after that theyturn away. Such (folk) are not believers.
5/44 Lo! We did reveal the Torah, wherein is guidance and a light,by which the prophets who surrendered (unto Allah) judged the Jews, and therabbis and the priests (judged) by such of Allah's Scripture as they werebidden to observe, and thereunto were they witnesses. So fear not mankind,but fear Me. And My revelations for a little gain. Whoso judgeth not bythat which Allah hath revealed: such are disbelievers.
5/45 And We prescribed for them therein: The life for the life, andthe eye for the eye, and the nose for the nose, and the ear for the ear,and the tooth for the tooth, and for wounds retaliation. But whoso forgoethit (in the way of charity) it shall be expiation for him. Whoso judgeth notby that which Allah hath revealed: such are wrong-doers.
5/46 And We caused Jesus, son of Mary, to follow in theirfootsteps, confirming that which was (revealed) before him in the Torah,and We bestowed on him the Gospel wherein is guidance and a light,confirming that which was (revealed) before it in the Torah - a guidanceand an admonition unto those who ward off (evil).
5/47 Let the People of the Gospel judge by that which Allah hathrevealed therein. Whoso judgeth not by that which Allah hath revealed: suchare evil-livers.
5/48 And unto thee have We revealed the Scripture with the truth,confirming whatever Scripture was before it, and a watcher over it. Sojudge between them by that which Allah hath revealed, and follow not theirdesires away from the truth which hath come unto thee. For each We haveappointed a divine law and a traced-out way. Had Allah willed He could havemade you one community. But that He may try you by that which He hath givenyou (He hath made you as ye are). So vie one with another in good works.Unto Allah ye will all return, and He will then inform you of that whereinye differ.
5/49 So judge between them by that which Allah hath revealed, andfollow not their desires, but beware of them lest they seduce thee fromsome part of that which Allah hath revealed unto thee. And if they turnaway, then know that Allah's Will is to smite them for some sin of theirs.Lo! many of mankind are evil-livers.
5/50 Is it a judgment of the time of (pagan) ignorance that theyare seeking? Who is better than Allah for judgment to a people who havecertainty (in their belief)?
5/51 O ye who believe! Take not the Jews and the Christians forfriends. They are friends one to another. He among you who taketh them forfriends is (one) of them. Lo! Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
5/52 And thou seest those in whose heart is a disease race towardthem, saying: We fear lest a change of fortune befall us. And it may happenthat Allah will vouchsafe (unto thee) the victory, or a commandment fromHis presence. Then will they repent them of their secret thoughts.
5/53 Then will the believers say (unto the people of theScripture): are these they who swore by Allah their most binding oaths thatthey were surely with you? Their works have failed, and they have becomethe losers.
5/54 O ye who believe! Whoso of you becometh a renegade from hisreligion, (know that in his stead) Allah will bring a people whom He lovethand who love Him, humble toward believers, stern toward disbelievers,striving in the way of Allah, and fearing not the blame of any blamer. Suchis the grace of Allah which He giveth unto whom He will. Allah isAll-Embracing, All-Knowing.
5/55 Your guardian can be only Allah; and His messenger and thosewho believe, who establish worship and pay the poordue, and bow down (inprayer).
5/56 And whoso taketh Allah and His messenger and those who believefor guardian (will know that), lo! the party of Allah, they are thevictorious.
5/57 O Ye who believe! Choose not for guardians such of those whoreceived the Scripture before you, and of the disbelievers, as make a jestand sport of your religion. But keep your duty to Allah if ye are truebelievers.
5/58 And when ye call to prayer they take it for a jest and sport.That is because they are a folk who understand not.
5/59 Say: O People of the Scripture! Do ye blame us for aught elsethan that we believe in Allah and that which is revealed unto us and thatwhich was revealed aforetime, and because most of you are evil-livers?
5/60 Shall I tell thee of a worse (case) than theirs forretribution with Allah? (Worse is the case of him) whom Allah hath cursed,him on whom His wrath hath fallen and of whose sort Allah hath turned someto apes and swine, and who serveth idols. Such are in worse plight andfurther astray from the plain road.
5/61 When they come unto you (Muslims), they say: We believe; butthey came in unbelief and they went out in the same; and Allah knoweth bestwhat they were hiding.
5/62 And thou seest many of them vying one with another in sin andtransgression and their devouring of illicit gain. Verily evil is what theydo.
5/63 Why do not the rabbis and the priests forbid theirevil-speaking and their devouring of illicit gain? Verily evil is theirhandiwork.
5/64 The Jews say: Allah's hand is fettered. Their hands arefettered and they are accursed for saying so. Nay, but both His hands arespread out wide in bounty. He bestoweth as He will. That which hath beenrevealed unto thee from thy Lord is certain to increase the contumacy anddisbelief of many of them, and We have cast among them enmity and hatredtill the Day of Resurrection. As often as they light a fire for war, Allahextinguisheth it. Their effort is for corruption in the land, and Allahloveth not corrupters.
5/65 If only the People of the Scripture would believe and ward off(evil), surely We should remit their sins from them and surely We shouldbring them into Gardens of Delight.
5/66 If they had observed the Torah and the Gospel and that whichwas revealed unto them from their Lord, they would surely have beennourished from above them and from beneath their feet. Among them there arepeople who are moderate, but many of them are of evil conduct.
5/67 O Messenger! Make known that which hath been revealed untothee from thy Lord, for if thou do it not, thou wilt not have conveyed Hismessage. Allah will protect thee from mankind. Lo! Allah guideth not thedisbelieving folk.
5/68 Say O People of the Scripture! Ye have naught (of guidance)till ye observe the Torah and the Gospel and that which was revealed untoyou from your Lord. That which is revealed unto thee (Muhammad) from thyLord is certain to increase the contumacy and disbelief of many of them.But grieve not for the disbelieving folk.
5/69 Lo! those who believe, and those who are Jews, and Sabaeans,and Christians - Whosoever believeth in Allah and the Last Day and doethright - there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve.
5/70 We made a covenant of old with the Children of Israel and Wesent unto them messengers. As often as a messenger came unto them with thatwhich their souls desired not (they became rebellious). Some (of them) theydenied and some they slew.
5/71 They thought no harm would come of it, so they were wilfullyblind and deaf. And afterward Allah turned (in mercy) toward them. Now(even after that) are many of them wilfully blind and deaf. Allah is Seerof what they do.
5/72 They surely disbelieve who say: Lo! Allah is the Messiah, sonof Mary. The Messiah (himself) said: O Children of Israel, worship Allah,my Lord and your Lord. Lo! whoso ascribeth partners unto Allah, for himAllah hath forbidden paradise. His abode is the Fire. For evil-doers therewill be no helpers.
5/73 They surely disbelieve who say: Lo! Allah is the third ofthree; when there is no Allah save the One Allah. If they desist not from sosaying a painful doom will fall on those of them who disbelieve.
5/74 Will they not rather turn unto Allah and seek forgiveness ofHim? For Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/75 The Messiah, son of Mary, was no other than a messenger,messengers (the like of whom) had passed away before him. And his motherwas a saintly woman. And they both used to eat (earthly) food. See how Wemake the revelations clear for them, and see how they are turned away!
5/76 Say: Serve ye in place of Allah that which possesseth for youneither hurt nor use? Allah it is Who is the Hearer, the Knower.
5/77 Say: O People of the Scripture! Stress not in your religionother than the truth, and follow not the vain desires of folk who erred ofold and led many astray, and erred from a plain road.
5/78 Those of the Children of Israel who went astray were cursed bythe tongue of David, and of Jesus, son of Mary. That was because theyrebelled and used to transgress.
5/79 They restrained not one another from the wickedness they did.Verily evil was that they used to do!
5/80 Thou seest many of them making friends with those whodisbelieve. Surely ill for them is that which they themselves send onbefore them: that Allah will be wroth with them and in the doom they willabide.
5/81 If they believed in Allah and the Prophet and that which isrevealed unto him, they would not choose them for their friends. But manyof them are of evil conduct.
5/82 Thou wilt find the most vehement of mankind in hostility tothose who believe (to be) the Jews and the idolaters. And thou wilt findthe nearest of them in affection to those who believe (to be) those whosay: Lo! We are Christians. That is because there are among them priestsand monks, and because they are not proud.
5/83 When they listen to that which hath been revealed unto themessengers, thou seest their eyes overflow with tears because of theirrecognition of the Truth. They say: Our Lord, we believe. Inscribe us asamong the witnesses.
5/84 How should we not believe in Allah and that which hath comeunto us of the Truth. And (how should we not) hope that our Lord will bringus in along with righteous folk?
5/85 Allah hath rewarded them for that their saying - Gardensunderneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. That is thereward of the good.
5/86 But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, they areowners of hell-fire.
5/87 O ye who believe! Forbid not the good things which Allah hathmade lawful for you, and transgress not, Lo! Allah loveth nottransgressors.
5/88 Eat of that which Allah hath bestowed on you as food lawfuland good, and keep your duty to Allah in Whom ye are believers.
5/89 Allah will not take you to task for that which isunintentional in your oaths, but He will take you to task for the oathswhich ye swear in earnest. The expiation thereof is the feeding of ten ofthe needy with the average of that wherewith ye feed your own folk, or theclothing of them, or the liberation of a slave, and for him who findeth not(the wherewithal to do so) then a three days' fast. This is the expiationof your oaths when ye have sworn; and keep your oaths. Thus Allahexpoundeth unto you His revelations in order that ye may give thanks.
5/90 O ye who believe! Strong drink and games of chance and idolsand divining arrows are only an infamy of Satan's handiwork. Leave it asidein order that ye may succeed.
5/91 Satan seeketh only to cast among you enmity and hatred bymeans of strong drink and games of chance, and to turn you from remembranceof Allah and from (His) worship. Will ye then have done?
5/92 Obey Allah and obey the messenger, and beware! But if ye turnaway, then know that the duty of Our messenger is only plain conveyance (ofthe message).
5/93 There shall be no sin (imputed) unto those who believe and dogood works for what they may have eaten (in the past). So be mindful ofyour duty (to Allah), and believe, and do good works; and again: be mindfulof your duty, and believe; and once again: be mindful of your duty, and doright. Allah loveth the good.
5/94 O ye who believe! Allah will surely try you somewhat (in thematter) of the game which ye take with your hands and your spears, thatAllah may know him who feareth Him in secret. Whoso transgresseth afterthis, for him there is a painful doom.
5/95 O ye who believe! Kill no wild game while ye are on thepilgrimage. Whoso of you killeth it of set purpose he shall pay its forfeitin the equivalent of that which he hath killed, of domestic animals, thejudge to be two men among you known for justice, (the forfeit) to bebrought as an offering to the Ka'bah; or, for expiation, he shall feed poorpersons, or the equivalent thereof in fasting, that he may taste the evilconsequences of his deed. Allah forgiveth whatever (of this kind) may havehappened in the past, but whoso relapseth, Allah will take retribution fromhim. Allah is Mighty, Able to Requite (the wrong).
5/96 To hunt and to eat the fish of the sea is made lawful for you,a provision for you and for seafarers; but to hunt on land is forbidden youso long as ye are on the pilgrimage. Be mindful of your duty to Allah, untoWhom ye will be gathered.
5/97 Allah hath appointed the Ka'bah, the Sacred House, a standardfor mankind, and the Sacred Month and the offerings and the garlands. Thatis so that ye may know that Allah knoweth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth, and that Allah is Knower of all things.
5/98 Know that Allah is severe in punishment, but that Allah (also)is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/99 The duty of the messenger is only to convey (the message).Allah knoweth what ye proclaim and what ye hide.
5/100 Say: The evil and the good are not alike even though theplenty of the evil attract thee. So be mindful of your duty to Allah, O menof understanding, that ye may succeed.
5/101 O ye who believe! Ask not of things which, if they were madeunto you, would trouble you; but if ye ask of them when the Qur'an is beingrevealed, they will be made known unto you. Allah pardoneth this, for Allahis Forgiving, Clement.
5/102 A folk before you asked (for such disclosures) and thendisbelieved therein.
5/103 Allah hath not appointed anything in the nature of a Bahirahor a Sa'ibah or a Wasilah or a Hami, but those who disbelieve invent a lieagainst Allah. Most of them have no sense.
5/104 And when it is said unto them: Come unto that which Allah hathrevealed and unto the messenger, they say: Enough for us is that wherein wefound our fathers. What! Even though their fathers had no knowledgewhatsoever, and no guidance?
5/105 O ye who believe! Ye have charge of your own souls. He whoerreth cannot injure you if ye are rightly guided. Unto Allah ye will allreturn; and then He will inform you of what ye used to do.
5/106 O ye who believe! Let there be witnesses between you whendeath draweth nigh unto one of you, at the time of bequest - two witnesses,just men from among you, or two others from another tribe, in case ye arecampaigning in the land and the calamity of death befall you. Ye shallempanel them both after the prayer, and, if ye doubt, they shall be made toswear by Allah (saying): We will not take a bribe, even though it were (onbehalf of) a near kinsman nor will we hide the testimony of Allah, for thenindeed we should be of the sinful.
5/107 But then, if it is afterwards ascertained that both of themmerit (the suspicion of) sin, let two others take their place of thosenearly concerned, and let them swear by Allah, (saying): Verily ourtestimony is truer than their testimony and we have not transgressed (thebounds of duty), for them indeed we should be of the evil-doers.
5/108 Thus it is more likely that they will bear true witness orfear that after their oaths the oaths (of others) will be taken. So bemindful of your duty (to Allah) and hearken. Allah guideth not the frowardfolk.
5/109 In the day when Allah gathereth together the messengers, andsaith: What was your response (from mankind)? they say: We have noknowledge. Lo! Thou, only Thou art the Knower of Things Hidden,
5/110 When Allah saith: O Jesus, son of Mary! Remember My favourunto thee and unto thy mother; how I strengthened thee with the holySpirit, so that thou spakest unto mankind in the cradle as in maturity; andhow I taught thee the Scripture and Wisdom and the Torah and the Gospel;and how thou didst shape of clay as it were the likeness of a bird by Mypermission, and didst blow upon it and it was a bird by My permission, andthou didst heal him who was born blind and the leper by My permission; andhow thou didst raise the dead by My permission; and how I restrained theChildren of Israel from (harming) thee when thou camest unto them withclear proofs, and those of them who disbelieved exclaimed: This is naughtelse than mere magic;
5/111 And when I inspired the disciples, (saying): Believe in Me andin My messenger, they said: We believe. Bear witness that we havesurrendered (unto Thee) "we are muslims".
5/112 When the disciples said: O Jesus, son of Mary! Is thy Lordable to send down for us a table spread with food from heaven? He said:Observe your duty to Allah, if ye are true believers.
5/113 (They said:) We wish to eat thereof, that we may satisfy ourhearts and know that thou hast spoken truth to us, and that thereof we maybe witnesses.
5/114 Jesus, son of Mary, said: O Allah, Lord of us! Send down forus a table spread with food from heaven, that it may be a feast for us, forthe first of us and for the last of us, and a sign from Thee. Give ussustenance, for Thou art the Best of Sustainers.
5/115 Allah said: Lo! I send it down for you. And whoso disbelievethof you afterward, him surely will I punish with a punishment wherewith Ihave not punished any of (My) creatures.
5/116 And when Allah saith: O Jesus, son of Mary! Didst thou sayunto mankind: Take me and my mother for two gods beside Allah? he saith: Beglorified! It was not mine to utter that to which I had no right. If I usedto say it, then Thou knewest it. Thou knowest what is in my mind, and Iknow not what is in Thy Mind. Lo! Thou, only Thou, art the Knower of ThingsHidden?
5/117 I spake unto them only that which Thou commandedst me,(saying): Worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. I was a witness of themwhile I dwelt among them, and when Thou tookest me Thou wast the Watcherover them. Thou art Witness over all things.
5/118 If Thou punish them, lo! they are Thy slaves, and if Thouforgive them (lo! they are Thy slaves). Lo! Thou, only Thou, art theMighty, the Wise.
5/119 Allah saith: This is a day in which their truthfulnessprofiteth the truthful, for theirs are Gardens underneath which riversflow, wherein they are secure for ever, Allah taking pleasure in them andthey in Him. That is the great triumph.
5/120 Unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and theearth and whatsoever is therein, and He is Able to do all things.
