67/1 Blessed is He in Whose hand is the Sovereignty, and, He isAble to do all things.
67/2 Who hath created life and death that He may try you which ofyou is best in conduct; and He is the Mighty, the Forgiving,
67/3 Who hath created seven heavens in harmony. Thou (Muhammad)canst see no fault in the Beneficent One's creation; then look again: Canstthou see any rifts?
67/4 Then look again and yet again, thy sight will return unto theeweakened and made dim.
67/5 And verily We have beautified the world's heaven with lamps,and We have made them missiles for the devils, and for them We haveprepared the doom of flame.
67/6 And for those who disbelieve in their Lord there is the doomof hell, a hapless journey's end!
67/7 When they are flung therein they hear its roaring as itboileth up,
67/8 As it would burst with rage. Whenever a (fresh) host is flungtherein the wardens thereof ask them: Came there unto you no warner?
67/9 They say: Yea, verily, a warner came unto us; but we deniedand said: Allah hath naught revealed; ye are in naught but a great error.
67/10 And they say: Had we been wont to listen or have sense, we hadnot been among the dwellers in the flames.
67/11 So they acknowledge their sins; but far removed (from mercy)are the dwellers in the flames.
67/12 Lo! those who fear their Lord in secret, theirs will beforgiveness and a great reward.
67/13 And keep your opinion secret or proclaim it, lo! He is Knowerof all that is in the breasts (of men).
67/14 Should He not know what He created? And He is the Subtile, theAware.
67/15 He it is Who hath made the earth subservient unto you, so Walkin the paths thereof and eat of His providence. And unto Him will be theresurrection (of the dead).
67/16 Have ye taken security from Him Who is in the heaven that Hewill not cause the earth to swallow you when lo! it is convulsed?
67/17 Or have ye taken security from Him Who is in the heaven thatHe will not let loose on you a hurricane? But ye shall know the manner ofMy warning.
67/18 And verily those before them denied, then (see) the manner ofMy wrath (with them)!
67/19 Have they not seen the birds above them spreading out theirwings and closing them? Naught upholdeth them save the Beneficent. Lo! Heis Seer of all things.
67/20 Or who is he that will be an army unto you to help you insteadof the Beneficent? The disbelievers are in naught but illusion.
67/21 Or who is he that will provide for you if He should withholdHis providence? Nay, but they are set in pride and frowardness.
67/22 Is he who goeth groping on his face more rightly guided, or hewho walketh upright on a straight road?
67/23 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): He it is who gave you being, andhath assigned unto you ears and eyes and hearts. Small thanks give ye!
67/24 Say: He it is Who multiplieth you in the earth, and unto Whomye will be gathered.
67/25 And they say: When (will) this promise (be fulfilled), if yeare truthful?
67/26 Say: The knowledge is with Allah only, and I am but a plainwarner;
67/27 But when they see it nigh, the faces of those who disbelievewill be awry, and it will be said (unto them): This is that for which yeused to call.
67/28 Say (O Muhammad): Have ye thought: Whether Allah causeth me(Muhammad) and those with me to perish or hath mercy on us, still, who willprotect the disbelievers from a painful doom?
67/29 Say: He is the Beneficent. In Him we believe and in Him we putour trust. And ye will soon know who it is that is in error manifest.
67/30 Say: Have ye thought: If (all) your water were to disappearinto the earth, who then could bring you gushing water?
