40/1 Ha. Mim.
40/2 The revelation of the Scripture is from Allah, the Mighty, theKnower,
40/3 The Forgiver of sin, the Accepter of repentance, the Stern inpunishment, the Bountiful. There is no Allah save Him. Unto Him is thejourneying.
40/4 None argue concerning the revelations of Allah save those whodisbelieve, so let not their turn of fortune in the land deceive thee (OMuhammad).
40/5 The folk of Noah and the factions after them denied (theirmessengers) before these, and every nation purposed to seize theirmessenger and argued falsely, (thinking) thereby to refute the Truth. ThenI seized them, and how (awful) was My punishment.
40/6 Thus was the word of thy Lord concerning those who disbelievefulfilled: That they are owners of the Fire.
40/7 Those who bear the Throne, and all who are round about it,hymn the praises of their Lord and believe in Him and ask forgiveness forthose who believe (saying): Our Lord! Thou comprehendest all things inmercy and knowledge, therefor forgive those who repent and follow Thy way.Ward off from them the punishment of hell.
40/8 Our Lord! And make them enter the Gardens of Eden which thouhast promised them, with such of their fathers and their wives and theirdescendants as do right. Lo! Thou, only Thou, art the Mighty, the Wise.
40/9 And ward off from them ill-deeds; and he from whom Thouwardest off ill-deeds that day, him verily hast Thou taken into mercy. Thatis the supreme triumph.
40/10 Lo! (on that day) those who disbelieve are informed byproclamation: Verily Allah's abhorrence is more terrible than yourabhorrence one of another, when ye were called unto the faith but didrefuse.
40/11 They say: Our Lord! Twice hast Thou made us die, and twicehast Thou made us live. Now we confess our sins. Is there any way to goout?
40/12 (It is said unto them): This is (your plight) because, whenAllah only was invoked, ye disbelieved, but when some partner was ascribedto Him ye were believing. But the command belongeth only to Allah, theSublime, the Majestic.
40/13 He it is Who showeth you His portents, and sendeth down foryou provision from the sky. None payeth heed save him who turneth (untoHim) repentant.
40/14 Therefor (O believers) pray unto Allah, making religion purefor Him (only), however much the disbelievers be averse -
40/15 The Exalter of Ranks, the Lord of the Throne. He causeth theSpirit of His command upon whom He will of His slaves, that He may warn ofthe Day of Meeting,
40/16 The day when they come forth, nothing of them being hiddenfrom Allah. Whose is the Sovereignty this day? It is Allah's, the One, theAlmighty.
40/17 This day is each soul requited that which it hath earned; nowrong (is done) this day. Lo! Allah is swift at reckoning.
40/18 Warn them (O Muhammad) of the Day of the approaching (doom),when the hearts will be choking the throats, (when) there will be no friendfor the wrong-doers, nor any intercessor who will be heard.
40/19 He knoweth the traitor of the eyes, and that which the bosomshide.
40/20 Allah judgeth with truth, while those to whom they cry insteadof Him judge not at all. Lo! Allah, He is the Hearer, the Seer.
40/21 Have they not travelled in the land to see the nature of theconsequence for those who disbelieved before them? They were mightier thanthese in power and (in the) traces (which they left behind them) in theearth. Yet Allah seized them for their sins, and they had no protector fromAllah.
40/22 That was because their messengers kept bringing them clearproofs (of Allah's Sovereignty) but they disbelieved; so Allah seized them.Lo! He is Strong, severe in punishment.
40/23 And verily We sent Moses with Our revelations and a clearwarrant
40/24 Unto Pharaoh and Haman and Korah, but they said: A lyingsorcerer!
40/25 And when he brought them the Truth from Our presence, theysaid: Slay the sons of those who believe with him, and spare their women.But the plot of disbelievers is in naught but error.
40/26 And Pharaoh said: Suffer me to kill Moses, and let him cryunto his Lord. Lo! I fear that he will alter your religion or that he willcause confusion in the land.
40/27 Moses said: Lo! I seek refuge in my Lord and your Lord fromevery scorner who believeth not in a Day of Reckoning.
40/28 And a believing man of Pharaoh's family, who hid his faith,said: Would ye kill a man because he saith: My Lord is Allah, and hathbrought you clear proofs from your Lord? If he is lying, then his lie isupon him; and if he is truthful, then some of that wherewith he threatenethyou will strike you. Lo! Allah guideth not one who is a prodigal, a liar.
40/29 O my people! Yours is the kingdom to-day, ye being uppermostin the land. But who would save us from the wrath of Allah should it reachus? Pharaoh said: I do but show you what I think, and I do but guide you towise policy.
40/30 And he who believed said: O my people! Lo! I fear for you afate like that of the factions (of old);
40/31 A plight like that of Noah's folk, and A'ad and Thamud, andthose after them, and Allah willeth no injustice for (His) slaves.
40/32 And, O my people! Lo! I fear for you a Day of Summoning,
40/33 A day when ye will turn to flee, having no preserver fromAllah: and he whom Allah sendeth astray, for him there is no guide.
40/34 And verily Joseph brought you of old clear proofs, yet yeceased not to be in doubt concerning what he brought you till, when hedied, ye said: Allah will not send any messenger after him. Thus Allahdeceiveth him who is a prodigal, a doubter.
40/35 Those who wrangle concerning the revelations of Allah withoutany warrant that hath come unto them, it is greatly hateful in the sight ofAllah and in the sight of those who believe. Thus doth Allah print on everyarrogant, disdainful heart.
40/36 And Pharaoh said: O Haman! Build for me a tower that haply Imay reach the roads,
40/37 The roads of the heavens, and may look upon the god of Moses,though verily I think him a liar. Thus was the evil that he did madefairseeming unto Pharaoh, and he was debarred from the (right) way. Theplot of Pharaoh ended but in ruin.
40/38 And he who believed said: O my people! Follow me. I will showyou the way of right conduct.
40/39 O my people! Lo! this life of the world is but a passingcomfort, and lo! the Hereafter, that is the enduring home.
40/40 Whoso doeth an ill-deed, he will be repaid the like thereof,while whoso doeth right, whether male or female, and is a believer, (all)such will enter the Garden, where they will be nourished without stint.
40/41 And, O my people! What aileth me that I call you untodeliverance when ye call me unto the Fire?
40/42 Ye call me to disbelieve in Allah and ascribe unto Him aspartners that whereof I have no knowledge, while I call you unto theMighty, the Forgiver.
40/43 Assuredly that whereunto ye call me hath no claim in the worldor in the Hereafter, and our return will be unto Allah, and the prodigalswill be owners of the Fire.
40/44 And ye will remember what I say unto you. I confide my causeunto Allah. Lo! Allah is Seer of (His) slaves.
40/45 So Allah warded off from him the evils which they plotted,while a dreadful doom encompassed Pharaoh's folk,
40/46 The Fire; they are exposed to it morning and evening; and onthe day when the Hour upriseth (it is said): Cause Pharaoh's folk to enterthe most awful doom.
40/47 And when they wrangle in the Fire, the weak say unto those whowere proud: Lo! we were a following unto you; will ye therefor rid us of aportion of the Fire?
40/48 Those who were proud say: Lo! we are all (together) herein.Lo! Allah hath judged between (His) slaves.
40/49 And those in the Fire say unto the guards of hell: Entreatyour Lord that He relieve us of a day of the torment.
40/50 They say: Came not your messengers unto you with clear proofs?They say: Yea, verily. They say: Then do ye pray, although the prayer ofdisbelievers is in vain.
40/51 Lo! We verily do help Our messengers, and those who believe,in the life of the world and on the day when the witnesses arise,
40/52 The day when their excuse availeth not the evil-doers, andtheirs is the curse, and theirs the ill abode.
40/53 And We verily gave Moses the guidance, and We caused theChildren of Israel to inherit the Scripture,
40/54 A guide and a reminder for men of understanding.
40/55 Then have patience (O Muhammad). Lo! the promise of Allah istrue. And ask forgiveness of thy sin, and hymn the praise of thy Lord atfall of night and in the early hours.
40/56 Lo! those who wrangle concerning the revelations of Allahwithout a warrant having come unto them, there is naught else in theirbreasts save pride which they will never attain. So take thou refuge inAllah. Lo! He, only He, is the Hearer, the Seer.
40/57 Assuredly the creation of the heavens and the earth is greaterthan the creation of mankind; but most of mankind know not.
40/58 And the blind man and the seer are not equal, neither arethose who believe and do good works (equal with) the evil-doer. Little doye reflect!
40/59 Lo! the Hour is surely coming, there is no doubt thereof; yetmost of mankind believe not.
40/60 And your Lord hath said: Pray unto Me and I will hear yourprayer. Lo! those who scorn My service, they will enter hell, disgraced.
40/61 Allah it is Who hath appointed for you night that ye may resttherein, and day for seeing. Lo! Allah is a Lord of bounty for mankind, yetmost of mankind give not thanks.
40/62 Such is Allah, your Lord, the Creator of all things, There isno Allah save Him. How then are ye perverted?
40/63 Thus are they perverted who deny the revelations of Allah.
40/64 Allah it is Who appointed for you the earth for adwelling-place and the sky for a canopy, and fashioned you and perfectedyour shapes, and hath provided you with good things. Such is Allah, yourLord. Then blessed be Allah, the Lord of the Worlds!
40/65 He is the Living One. There is no Allah save Him. So pray untoHim, making religion pure for Him (only). Praise be to Allah, the Lord ofthe Worlds!
40/66 Say (O Muhammad): I am forbidden to worship those unto whom yecry beside Allah since there have come unto me clear proofs from my Lord,and I am commanded to surrender to the Lord of the Worlds.
40/67 He it is Who created you from dust, then from a drop (of seed)then from a clot, then bringeth you forth as a child, then (ordaineth) thatye attain full strength and afterward that ye become old men - though someamong you die before - and that ye reach an appointed term, that haply yemay understand.
40/68 He it is Who quickeneth and giveth death. When He ordaineth athing, He saith unto it only: Be! and it is.
40/69 Hast thou not seen those who wrangle concerning therevelations of Allah, how they are turned away? -
40/70 Those who deny the Scripture and that wherewith We send Ourmessengers. But they will come to know,
40/71 When carcans are about their necks and chains. They aredragged
40/72 Through boiling waters; then they are thrust into the Fire.
40/73 Then it is said unto them: Where are (all) that ye used tomake partners (in the Sovereignty)
40/74 Beside Allah? They say: They have failed us; but we used notto pray to anything before. Thus doth Allah send astray the disbelievers(in His guidance).
40/75 (And it is said unto them): This is because ye exulted in theearth without right, and because ye were petulant.
40/76 Enter ye the gates of hell, to dwell therein. Evil is thehabitation of the scornful.
40/77 Then have patience (O Muhammad). Lo! the promise of Allah istrue. And whether we let thee see a part of that which We promise them, or(whether) We cause thee to die, still unto Us they will be brought back.
40/78 Verily We sent messengers before thee, among them those ofwhom We have told thee, and some of whom We have not told thee; and it wasnot given to any messenger that he should bring a portent save by Allah'sleave, but when Allah's commandment cometh (the cause) is judged aright,and the followers of vanity will then be lost.
40/79 Allah it is Who hath appointed for you cattle, that ye mayride on some of them, and eat of some -
40/80 (Many) benefits ye have from them - and that ye may satisfy bytheir means a need that is in your breasts, and may be borne upon them asupon the ship.
40/81 And He showeth you His tokens. Which, then, of the tokens ofAllah do ye deny?
40/82 Have they not travelled in the land to see the nature of theconsequence for those before them? They were more numerous than these, andmightier in power and (in the) traces (which they left behind them) in theearth. But all that they used to earn availed them not.
40/83 And when their messengers brought them clear proofs (ofAllah's Sovereignty) they exulted in the knowledge they (themselves)possessed. And that which they were wont to mock befell them.
40/84 Then, when they saw Our doom, they said: We believe in Allahonly and reject (all) that we used to associate (with Him).
40/85 But their faith could not avail them when they saw Our doom.This is Allah's law which hath ever taken course for His bondmen. And thenthe disbelievers will be ruined.
