60/1 O ye who believe! Choose not My enemy and your enemy forallies. Do ye give them friendship when they disbelieve in that truth whichhath come unto you, driving out the messenger and you because ye believe inAllah, your Lord? If ye have come forth to strive in My way and seeking Mygood pleasure, (show them not friendship). Do ye show friendship unto themin secret, when I am Best Aware of what ye hide and what ye proclaim? Andwhosoever doeth it among you, he verily hath strayed from the right way.
60/2 If they have the upper hand of you, they will be your foes,and will stretch out their hands and their tongues toward you with evil(intent), and they long for you to disbelieve.
60/3 Your ties of kindred and your children will avail you naughtupon the Day of Resurrection. He will part you. Allah is Seer of what yedo.
60/4 There is a goodly pattern for you in Abraham and those withhim, when they told their folk: Lo! we are guiltless of you and all that yeworship beside Allah. We have done with you. And there hath arisen betweenus and you hostility and hate for ever until ye believe in Allah only -save that which Abraham promised his father (when he said): I will askforgiveness for thee, though I own nothing for thee from Allah - Our Lord!In Thee we put our trust, and unto Thee we turn repentant, and unto Thee isthe journeying.
60/5 Our Lord! Make us not a prey for those who disbelieve, andforgive us, our Lord! Lo! Thou, only Thou, are the Mighty, the Wise.
60/6 Verily ye have in them a goodly pattern for everyone wholooketh to Allah and the Last Day. And whosoever may turn away, lo! stillAllah, He is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.
60/7 It may be that Allah will ordain love between you and those ofthem with whom ye are at enmity. Allah is Mighty, and Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
60/8 Allah forbiddeth you not those who warred not against you onaccount of religion and drove you not out from your homes, that ye shouldshow them kindness and deal justly with them. Lo! Allah loveth the justdealers.
60/9 Allah forbiddeth you only those who warred against you onaccount of religion and have driven you out from your homes and helped todrive you out, that ye make friends of them. Whosoever maketh friends ofthem - (All) such are wrong-doers.
60/10 O ye who believe! When believing women come unto you asfugitives, examine them. Allah is Best Aware of their faith. Then, if yeknow them for true believers, send them not back unto the disbelievers.They are not lawful for them (the disbelievers), nor are they (thedisbelievers) lawful for them. And give them (the disbelievers) that whichthey have spent (upon them). And it is no sin for you to marry such womenwhen ye have given them their dues. And hold not to the ties ofdisbelieving women; and ask for (the return of) that which ye have spent;and let them (the disbelievers) ask for that which they have spent. That isthe judgment of Allah. He judgeth between you. Allah is Knower, Wise.
60/11 And if any of your wives have gone from you unto thedisbelievers and afterward ye have your turn (of triumph), then give untothose whose wives have gone the like of that which they have spent, andkeep your duty to Allah in Whom ye are believers.
60/12 O Prophet! If believing women come unto thee, taking oath ofallegiance unto thee that they will ascribe no thing as partner unto Allah,and will neither steal nor commit adultery nor kill their children, norproduce any lie that they have devised between their hands and feet, nordisobey thee in what is right, then accept their allegiance and ask Allahto forgive them. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
60/13 O ye who believe! Be not friendly with a folk with whom Allahis wroth, (a folk) who have despaired of the Hereafter as the disbelieversdespair of those who are in the graves.
