27/1 Ta. Sin. These are revelations of the Qur'an and a Scripturethat maketh plain;
27/2 A guidance and good tidings for believers
27/3 Who establish worship and pay the poor-due and are sure of theHereafter.
27/4 Lo! as for those who believe not in the Hereafter, We havemade their works fairseeming unto them so that they are all astray.
27/5 Those are they for whom is the worst of punishment, and in theHereafter they will be the greatest losers.
27/6 Lo! as for thee (Muhammad), thou verily receivest the Qur'anfrom the presence of One Wise, Aware.
27/7 (Remember) when Moses said unto his household: Lo! I spy afaroff a fire; I will bring you tidings thence, or bring to you a borrowedflame that ye may warm yourselves.
27/8 But when he reached it, he was called, saying: Blessed isWhosoever is in the fire and Whosoever is round about it! And Glorified beAllah, the Lord of the Worlds!
27/9 O Moses! Lo! it is I, Allah, the Mighty, the Wise.
27/10 And throw down thy staff! But when he saw it writhing as itwere a demon, he turned to flee headlong; (but it was said unto him): OMoses! Fear not! the emissaries fear not in My presence,
27/11 Save him who hath done wrong and afterward hath changed evilfor good. And lo! I am Forgiving, Merciful.
27/12 And put thy hand into the bosom of thy robe, it will comeforth white but unhurt. (This will be one) among nine tokens unto Pharaohand his people Lo! they were ever evil-living folk.
27/13 But when Our tokens came unto them, plain to see, they said:This is mere magic,
27/14 And they denied them, though their souls acknowledged them,for spite and arrogance. Then see the nature of the consequence for thewrong-doers!
27/15 And We verily gave knowledge unto David and Solomon, and theysaid: Praise be to Allah, Who hath preferred us above many of His believingslaves!
27/16 And Solomon was David's heir. And he said: O mankind! Lo! wehave been taught the language of birds, and have been given (abundance) ofall things. This surely is evident favour.
27/17 And there were gathered together unto Solomon his armies ofthe jinn and humankind, and of the birds, and they were set in battleorder;
27/18 Till, when they reached the Valley of the Ants, an antexclaimed: O ants! Enter your dwellings lest Solomon and his armies crushyou, unperceiving.
27/19 And (Solomon) smiled, laughing at her speech, and said: MyLord, arouse me to be thankful for Thy favour wherewith Thou hast favouredme and my parents, and to do good that shall be pleasing unto Thee, andinclude me in (the number of) Thy righteous slaves.
27/20 And he sought among the birds and said: How is it that I seenot the hoopoe, or is he among the absent?
27/21 I verily will punish him with hard punishment or I verily willslay him, or he verily shall bring me a plain excuse.
27/22 But he was not long in coming, and he said: I have found out(a thing) that thou apprehendest not, and I come unto thee from Sheba withsure tidings.
27/23 Lo! I found a woman ruling over them, and she hath been given(abundance) of all things, and hers is a mighty throne.
27/24 I found her and her people worshipping the sun instead ofAllah; and Satan maketh their works fairseeming unto them, and debarreththem from the way (of Truth), so that they go not aright;
27/25 So that they worship not Allah, Who bringeth forth the hiddenin the heavens and the earth, and knoweth what ye hide and what yeproclaim,
27/26 Allah; there is no Allah save Him, the Lord of the TremendousThrone.
27/27 (Solomon) said: We shall see whether thou speakest truth orwhether thou art of the liars.
27/28 Go with this my letter and throw it down unto them; then turnaway and see what (answer) they return,
27/29 (The Queen of Sheba) said (when she received the letter): Ochieftains! Lo! there hath been thrown unto me a noble letter.
27/30 Lo! it is from Solomon, and lo! it is: In the name of Allah,the Beneficent, the Merciful;
27/31 Exalt not yourselves against me, but come unto me as those whosurrender.
27/32 She said: O chieftains! Pronounce for me in my case. I decideno case till ye are present with me.
27/33 They said: We are lords of might and lords of great prowess,but it is for thee to command; so consider what thou wilt command.
27/34 She said: Lo! kings, when they enter a township, ruin it andmake the honour of its people shame. Thus will they do.
27/35 But lo! I am going to send a present unto them, and to seewith what (answer) the messengers return.
27/36 So when (the envoy) came unto Solomon, (the King) said: What!Would ye help me with wealth? But that which Allah hath given me is betterthan that which He hath given you. Nay it is ye (and not I) who exult inyour gift.
27/37 Return unto them. We verily shall come unto them with hoststhat they cannot resist, and we shall drive them out from thence withshame, and they will be abased.
27/38 He said: O chiefs! Which of you will bring me her thronebefore they come unto me, surrendering?
27/39 A stalwart of the jinn said: I will bring it thee before thoucanst rise from thy place. Lo! I verily am strong and trusty for suchwork.
27/40 One with whom was knowledge of the Scripture said: I willbring it thee before thy gaze returneth unto thee. And when he saw it setin his presence, (Solomon) said: This is of the bounty of my Lord, that Hemay try me whether I give thanks or am ungrateful. Whosoever giveth thankshe only giveth thanks for (the good of) his own soul; and whosoever isungrateful (is ungrateful only to his own soul's hurt). For lo! my Lord isAbsolute in independence, Bountiful.
27/41 He said: Disguise her throne for her that we may see whethershe will go aright or be of those not rightly guided.
27/42 So, when she came, it was said (unto her): Is thy throne likethis? She said: (It is) as though it were the very one. And (Solomon said):We were given the knowledge before her and we had surrendered (to Allah).
27/43 And (all) that she was wont to worship instead of Allahhindered her, for she came of disbelieving folk.
27/44 It was said unto her: Enter the hall. And when she saw it shedeemed it a pool and bared her legs. (Solomon) said: Lo! it is a hall, madesmooth, of glass. She said: My Lord! Lo! I have wronged myself, and Isurrender with Solomon unto Allah, the Lord of the Worlds.
27/45 And We verily sent unto Thamud their brother Salih, saying:Worship Allah. And lo! they (then  became two parties quarrelling.
27/46 He said: O my people! Why will ye hasten on the evil ratherthan the good? Why will ye not ask pardon of Allah, that ye may receivemercy.
27/47 They said: We augur evil of thee and those with thee. He said:Your evil augury is with Allah. Nay, but ye are folk that are beingtested.
27/48 And there were in the city nine persons who made mischief inthe land and reformed not.
27/49 They said: Swear one to another by Allah that we verily willattack him and his household by night, and afterward we will surely sayunto his friend: We witnessed not the destruction of his household. And lo!we are truthtellers.
27/50 So they plotted a plot: and We plotted a plot, while theyperceived not.
27/51 Then see the nature of the consequence of their plotting, forlo! We destroyed them and their people, every one.
27/52 See, yonder are their dwellings empty and in ruins becausethey did wrong. Lo! herein is indeed a portent for a people who haveknowledge.
27/53 And we saved those who believed and used to ward off (evil).
27/54 And Lot! when he said unto his folk: Will ye commitabomination knowingly?
27/55 Must ye needs lust after men instead of women? Nay, but ye arefolk who act senselessly.
27/56 But the answer of his folk was naught save that they said:Expel the household of Lot from your township, for they (forsooth) are folkwho would keep clean!
27/57 Then We saved him and his household save his wife; We destinedher to be of those who stayed behind.
27/58 And We rained a rain upon them. Dreadful is the rain of thosewho have been warned.
27/59 Say (O Muhammad): Praise be to Allah, and peace be on Hisslaves whom He hath chosen! Is Allah best, or (all) that ye ascribe aspartners (unto Him)?
27/60 Is not He (best) Who created the heavens and the earth, andsendeth down for you water from the sky wherewith We cause to spring forthjoyous orchards, whose trees it never hath been yours to cause to grow. Isthere any Allah beside Allah? Nay, but they are folk who ascribe equals (untoHim)!
27/61 Is not He (best) Who made the earth a fixed abode, and placedrivers in the folds thereof, and placed firm hills therein, and hath set abarrier between the two seas? Is there any Allah beside Allah? Nay, but mostof them know not!
27/62 Is not He (best) Who answereth the wronged one when he criethunto Him and removeth the evil, and hath made you viceroys of the earth? Isthere any Allah beside Allah? Little do they reflect!
27/63 Is not He (best) Who guideth you in the darkness of the landand the sea, He Who sendeth the winds as heralds of His mercy? Is there anyAllah beside Allah? High Exalted be Allah from all that they ascribe aspartner (unto Him)!
27/64 Is not He (best) Who produceth creation, then reproduceth it,and Who provideth for you from the heaven and the earth? Is there any Allahbeside Allah? Say: Bring your proof, if ye are truthful!
27/65 Say (O Muhammad): None in the heavens and the earth knoweththe Unseen save Allah; and they know not when they will be raised (again).
27/66 Nay, but doth their knowledge reach to the Hereafter? Nay, forthey are in doubt concerning it. Nay, for they cannot see it.
27/67 Yet those who disbelieve say: When we have become dust likeour fathers, shall we verily be brought forth (again)?
27/68 We were promised this, forsooth, we and our fathers. (All)this is naught but fables of the men of old.
27/69 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Travel in the land and see thenature of the sequel for the guilty!
27/70 And grieve thou not for them, nor be in distress because ofwhat they plot (against thee).
27/71 And they say: When (will) this promise (be fulfilled), if yeare truthful?
27/72 Say: It may be that a part of that which ye would hasten on isclose behind you.
27/73 Lo! thy Lord is full of bounty for mankind, but most of themdo not give thanks.
27/74 Lo! thy Lord knoweth surely all that their bosoms hide, andall that they proclaim.
27/75 And there is nothing hidden in the heaven or the earth but itis in a clear Record.
27/76 Lo! this Qur'an narrateth unto the Children of Israel most ofthat concerning which they differ.
27/77 And lo! it is a guidance and a mercy for believers.
27/78 Lo! thy Lord will judge between them of His wisdom, and He isthe Mighty, the Wise.
27/79 Therefor (O Muhammad) put thy trust in Allah, for thou(standest) on the plain Truth.
27/80 Lo! thou canst not make the dead to hear, nor canst thou makethe deaf to hear the call when they have turned to flee;
27/81 Nor canst thou lead the blind out of their error. Thou canstmake none to hear, save those who believe Our revelations and who havesurrendered.
27/82 And when the word is fulfilled concerning them, We shall bringforth a beast of the earth to speak unto them because mankind had not faithin Our revelations.
27/83 And (remind them of) the Day when We shall gather out of everynation a host of those who denied Our revelations, and they will be set inarray;
27/84 Till, when they come (before their Lord), He will say: Did yedeny My revelations when ye could not compass them in knowledge, or whatwas it that ye did?
27/85 And the Word will be fulfilled concerning them because theyhave done wrong, and they will not speak.
27/86 Have they not seen how We have appointed the night that theymay rest therein, and the day sight-giving? Lo! therein verily are portentsfor a people who believe.
27/87 And (remind them of) the Day when the Trumpet will be blown,and all who are in the heavens and the earth will start in fear, save himwhom Allah willeth. And all come unto Him, humbled.
27/88 And thou seest the hills thou deemest solid flying with theflight of clouds: the doing of Allah Who perfecteth all things. Lo! He isInformed of what ye do.
27/89 Whoso bringeth a good deed will have better than its worth;and such are safe from fear that Day.
27/90 And whoso bringeth an ill-deed, such will be flung down ontheir faces in the Fire. Are ye rewarded aught save what ye did?
27/91 (Say): I (Muhammad) am commanded only to serve the Lord ofthis land which He hath hallowed, and unto Whom all things belong. And I amcommanded to be of those who surrender (unto Him),
27/92 And to recite the Qur'an. And whoso goeth right, goeth rightonly for (the good of) his own soul; and as for him who goeth astray -(Unto him) say: Lo! I am only a warner.
27/93 And say: Praise be to Allah Who will show you His portents sothat ye shall know them. And thy Lord is not unaware of what ye (mortals)do.
