30/1 Alif. Lam. Mim.
30/2 The Romans have been defeated
30/3 In the nearer land, and they, after their defeat will bevictorious
30/4 Within ten years - Allah's is the command in the former caseand in the latter - and in that day believers will rejoice
30/5 In Allah's help to victory. He helpeth to victory whom Hewill. He is the Mighty, the Merciful.
30/6 It is a promise of Allah. Allah faileth not His promise, butmost of mankind know not.
30/7 They know only some appearance of the life of the world, andare heedless of the Hereafter.
30/8 Have they not pondered upon themselves? Allah created not theheavens and the earth, and that which is between them, save with truth andfor a destined end. But truly many of mankind are disbelievers in themeeting with their Lord.
30/9 Have they not travelled in the land and seen the nature of theconsequence for those who were before them? They were stronger than thesein power, and they dug the earth and built upon it more than these havebuilt. Messengers of their own came unto them with clear proofs (of Allah'sSovereignty). Surely Allah wronged them not, but they did wrongthemselves.
30/10 Then evil was the consequence to those who dealt in evil,because they denied the revelations of Allah and made a mock of them.
30/11 Allah produceth creation, then He reproduceth it, then untoHim ye will be returned.
30/12 And in the day when the Hour riseth the unrighteous willdespair.
30/13 There will be none to intercede for them of those whom theymade equal with Allah. And they will reject their partners (whom theyascribed unto Him).
30/14 In the day when the Hour cometh, in that day they will besundered.
30/15 As for those who believed and did good works, they will bemade happy in a Garden.
30/16 But as for those who disbelieved and denied Our revelations,and denied the meeting of the Hereafter, such will be brought to doom.
30/17 So glory be to Allah when ye enter the night and when ye enterthe morning -
30/18 Unto Him be praise in the heavens and the earth! - and at thesun's decline and in the noonday.
30/19 He bringeth forth the living from the dead, and He bringethforth the dead from the living, and He reviveth the earth after her death.And even so will ye be brought forth.
30/20 And of His signs is this: He created you of dust, and beholdyou human beings, ranging widely!
30/21 And of His signs is this: He created for you helpmeets fromyourselves that ye might find rest in them, and He ordained between youlove and mercy. Lo! herein indeed are portents for folk who reflect.
30/22 And of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth,and the difference of your languages and colours. Lo! herein indeed areportents for men of knowledge.
30/23 And of His signs is your slumber by night and by day, and yourseeking of His bounty. Lo! herein indeed are portents for folk who heed.
30/24 And of His signs is this: He showeth you the lightning for afear and for a hope, and sendeth down water from the sky, and therebyquickeneth the earth after her death. Lo! herein indeed are portents forfolk who understand.
30/25 And of His signs is this: The heavens and the earth stand fastby His command, and afterward, when He calleth you, lo! from the earth yewill emerge.
30/26 Unto Him belongeth whosoever is in the heavens and the earth.All are obedient unto Him.
30/27 He it is Who produceth creation, then reproduceth it, and itis easier for Him. His is the Sublime Similitude in the heavens and theearth. He is the Mighty, the Wise.
30/28 He coineth for you a similitude of yourselves. Have ye, fromamong those whom your right hands possess, partners in the wealth We havebestowed upon you, equal with you in respect thereof, so that ye fear themas ye fear each other (that ye ascribe unto Us partners out of that whichWe created)? Thus We display the revelations for people who have sense.
30/29 Nay, but those who do wrong follow their own lusts withoutknowledge. Who is able to guide him whom Allah hath sent astray? For suchthere are no helpers.
30/30 So set thy purpose (O Muhammad) for religion as a man bynature upright - the nature (framed) of Allah, in which He hath createdman. There is no altering (the laws of) Allah's creation. That is the rightreligion, but most men know not -
30/31 Turning unto Him (only); and be careful of your duty unto Himand establish worship, and be not of those who ascribe partners (untoHim);
30/32 Of those who split up their religion and became schismatics,each sect exulting in its tenets.
30/33 And when harm toucheth men they cry unto their Lord, turningto Him in repentance; then, when they have tasted of His mercy, behold!some of them attribute partners to their Lord
30/34 So as to disbelieve in that which We have given them. (Untosuch it is said): Enjoy yourselves awhile, but ye will come to know.
30/35 Or have We revealed unto them any warrant which speaketh ofthat which they associate with Him?
30/36 And when We cause mankind to taste of mercy they rejoicetherein; but if an evil thing befall them as the consequence of their owndeeds, lo! they are in despair!
30/37 See they not that Allah enlargeth the provision for whom Hewill, and straiteneth (it for whom He will). Lo! herein indeed are portentsfor folk who believe.
30/38 So give to the kinsman his due, and to the needy, and to thewayfarer. That is best for those who seek Allah's Countenance. And such arethey who are successful.
30/39 That which ye give in usury in order that it may increase on(other) people's property hath no increase with Allah; but that which yegive in charity, seeking Allah's Countenance, hath increase manifold.
30/40 Allah is He Who created you and then sustained you, thencauseth you to die, then giveth life to you again. Is there any of your(so-called) partners (of Allah) that doeth aught of that? Praised andExalted be He above what they associate (with Him)!
30/41 Corruption doth appear on land and sea because of (the evil)which men's hands have done, that He may make them taste a part of thatwhich they have done, in order that they may return.
30/42 Say (O Muhammad, to the disbelievers): Travel in the land, andsee the nature of the consequence for those who were before you! Most ofthem were idolaters.
30/43 So set thy purpose resolutely for the right religion, beforethe inevitable day cometh from Allah. On that day mankind will besundered-
30/44 Whoso disbelieveth must (then) bear the consequences of hisdisbelief, while those who do right make provision for themselves -
30/45 That He may reward out of His bounty those who believe and dogood works. Lo! He loveth not the disbelievers (in His guidance).
30/46 And of His signs is this: He sendeth herald winds to make youtaste His mercy, and that the ships may sail at His command, and that yemay seek his favour, and that haply ye may be thankful.
30/47 Verily We sent before thee (Muhammad) messengers to their ownfolk. Then we took vengeance upon those who were guilty (in regard tothem). To help believers is ever incumbent upon Us.
30/48 Allah is He Who sendeth the winds so that they raise clouds,and spreadeth them along the sky as pleaseth Him, and causeth them to breakand thou seest the rain downpouring from within them. And when He maketh itto fall on whom He will of His bondmen, lo! they rejoice;
30/49 Though before that, even before it was sent down upon them,they were in despair.
30/50 Look, therefore, at the prints of Allah's mercy (in creation):how He quickeneth the earth after her death. Lo! He verily is the Quickenerof the Dead, and He is Able to do all things.
30/51 And if We sent a wind and they beheld it yellow, they verilywould still continue in their disbelief.
30/52 For verily thou (Muhammad) canst not make the dead to hear,nor canst thou make the deaf to hear the call when they have turned toflee.
30/53 Nor canst thou guide the blind out of their error. Thou canstmake none to hear save those who believe in Our revelations so that theysurrender (unto Him).
30/54 Allah is He Who shaped you out of weakness, then appointedafter weakness strength, then, after strength, appointed weakness and greyhair. He createth what He will. He is the Knower, the Mighty.
30/55 And on the day when the Hour riseth the guilty will vow thatthey did tarry but an hour - thus were they ever deceived.
30/56 But those to whom knowledge and faith are given will say: Thetruth is, ye have tarried, by Allah's decree, until the Day ofResurrection. This is the Day of Resurrection, but ye used not to know.
30/57 In that day their excuses will not profit those who didinjustice, nor will they be allowed to make amends.
30/58 Verily We have coined for mankind in this Qur'an all kinds ofsimilitudes; and indeed if thou camest unto them with a miracle, those whodisbelieve would verily exclaim: Ye are but tricksters!
30/59 Thus doth Allah seal the hearts of those who know not.
30/60 So have patience (O Muhammad)! Allah's promise is the verytruth, and let not those who have no certainty make thee impatient.
