32/1 Alif. Lam. Mim
32/2 The revelation of the Scripture whereof there is no doubt isfrom the Lord of the Worlds.
32/3 Or say they: He hath invented it? Nay, but it is the Truthfrom thy Lord, that thou mayst warn a folk to whom no warner came beforethee, that haply they may walk aright.
32/4 Allah it is Who created the heavens and the earth, and thatwhich is between them, in six Days. Then He mounted the Throne. Ye havenot, beside Him, a protecting friend or mediator. Will ye not thenremember?
32/5 He directeth the ordinance from the heaven unto the earth;then it ascendeth unto Him in a Day, whereof the measure is a thousandyears of that ye reckon.
32/6 Such is the Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, theMighty, the Merciful,
32/7 Who made all things good which He created, and He began thecreation of man from clay;
32/8 Then He made his seed from a draught of despised fluid;
32/9 Then He fashioned him and breathed into him of His Spirit; andappointed for you hearing and sight and hearts. Small thanks give ye!
32/10 And they say: When we are lost in the earth, how can we thenbe re-created? Nay but they are disbelievers in the meeting with theirLord.
32/11 Say: The angel of death, who hath charge concerning you, willgather you, and afterward unto your Lord ye will be returned.
32/12 Couldst thou but see when the guilty hang their heads beforetheir Lord, (and say): Our Lord! We have now seen and heard, so send usback; we will do right, now we are sure.
32/13 And if We had so willed, We could have given every soul itsguidance, but the word from Me concerning evildoers took effect: that Iwill fill hell with the jinn and mankind together.
32/14 So taste (the evil of your deeds). Forasmuch as ye forgot themeeting of this your day, lo! We forget you. Taste the doom of immortalitybecause of what ye used to do.
32/15 Only those believe in Our revelations who, when they arereminded of them, fall down prostrate and hymn the praise of their Lord,and they are not scornful,
32/16 Who forsake their beds to cry unto their Lord in fear andhope, and spend of that We have bestowed on them.
32/17 No soul knoweth what is kept hid for them of joy, as a rewardfor what they used to do.
32/18 Is he who is a believer like unto him who is an evil-liver?They are not alike.
32/19 But as for those who believe and do good works, for them arethe Gardens of Retreat - a welcome (in reward) for what they used to do.
32/20 And as for those who do evil, their retreat is the Fire.Whenever they desire to issue forth from thence, they are brought backthither. Unto them it is said: Taste the torment of the Fire which ye usedto deny.
32/21 And verily We make them taste the lower punishment before thegreater, that haply they may return.
32/22 And who doth greater wrong than he who is reminded of therevelations of his Lord, then turneth from them. Lo! We shall requite theguilty.
32/23 We verily gave Moses the Scripture; so be not ye in doubt ofhis receiving it; and We appointed it a guidance for the Children ofIsrael.
32/24 And when they became steadfast and believed firmly in Ourrevelations, We appointed from among them leaders who guided by Ourcommand.
32/25 Lo! thy Lord will judge between them on the Day ofResurrection concerning that wherein they used to differ.
32/26 Is it not a guidance for them (to observe) how manygenerations We destroyed before them, amid whose dwelling places they dowalk? Lo! therein verily are portents! Will they not then heed?
32/27 Have they not seen how We lead the water to the barren landand therewith bring forth crops whereof their cattle eat, and theythemselves? Will they not then see?
32/28 And they say: When cometh this victory (of yours) if ye aretruthful?
32/29 Say (unto them): On the day of the victory the faith of thosewho disbelieve (and who then will believe) will not avail them, neitherwill they be reprieved.
32/30 So withdraw from them (O Muhammad), and await (the event). Lo!they (also) are awaiting (it).
