66/1 O Prophet! Why bannest thou that which Allah hath made lawfulfor thee, seeking to please thy wives? And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
66/2 Allah hath made lawful for you (Muslims) absolution from youroaths (of such a kind), and Allah is your Protector. He is the Knower, theWise.
66/3 When the Prophet confided a fact unto one of his wives andwhen she afterward divulged it and Allah apprised him thereof, he madeknown (to her) part thereof and passed over part. And when he told it hershe said: Who hath told thee? He said: The Knower, the Aware hath told me.
66/4 If ye twain turn unto Allah repentant, (ye have cause to doso) for your hearts desired (the ban); and if ye aid one another againsthim (Muhammad) then lo! Allah, even He, is his Protecting Friend, andGabriel and the righteous among the believers; and furthermore the angelsare his helpers.
66/5 It may happen that his Lord, if he divorce you, will give himin your stead wives better than you, submissive (to Allah), believing,pious, penitent, devout, inclined to fasting, widows and maids.
66/6 O ye who believe! Ward off from yourselves and your families aFire whereof the fuel is men and stones, over which are set angels strong,severe, who resist not Allah in that which He commandeth them, but do thatwhich they are commanded.
66/7 (Then it will be said): O ye who disbelieve! Make no excusesfor yourselves this day. Ye are only being paid for what ye used to do.
66/8 O ye who believe! Turn unto Allah in sincere repentance! Itmay be that your Lord will remit from you your evil deeds and bring youinto Gardens underneath which rivers flow, on the day when Allah will notabase the Prophet and those who believe with him. Their light will runbefore them and on their right hands; they will say: Our Lord!  Perfect ourlight for us, and forgive us! Lo! Thou art Able to do all things.
66/9 O Prophet! Strive against the disbelievers and the hypocrites,and be stern with them. Hell will be their home, a hapless journey's end.
66/10 Allah citeth an example for those who disbelieve: the wife ofNoah and the wife of Lot, who were under two of Our righteous slaves yetbetrayed them so that they (the husbands) availed them naught against Allahand it was said (unto them): Enter the Fire along with those who enter.
66/11 And Allah citeth an example for those who believe: the wife ofPharaoh when she said: My Lord! Build for me a home with thee in theGarden, and deliver me from Pharaoh and his work, and deliver me fromevil-doing folk;
66/12 And Mary, daughter of 'Imran, whose body was chaste, thereforWe breathed therein something of Our Spirit. And she put faith in the wordsof her Lord and His scriptures, and was of the obedient.
