65/1 O Prophet! When ye (men) put away women, put them away fortheir (legal) period and reckon the period, and keep your duty to Allah,your Lord. Expel them not from their houses nor let them go forth unlessthey commit open immorality. Such are the limits (imposed by) Allah; andwhoso transgresseth Allah's limits, he verily wrongeth his soul. Thouknowest not: it may be that Allah will afterward bring some new thing topass.
65/2 Then, when they have reached their term, take them back inkindness or part from them in kindness, and call to witness two just menamong you, and keep your testimony upright for Allah. Whoso believeth inAllah and the Last Day is exhorted to act thus. And whosoever keepeth hisduty to Allah, Allah will appoint a way out for him,
65/3 And will provide for him from (a quarter) whence he hath noexpectation. And whosoever putteth his trust in Allah, He will suffice him.Lo! Allah bringeth His command to pass. Allah hath set a measure for allthings.
65/4 And for such of your women as despair of menstruation, if yedoubt, their period (of waiting) shall be three months, along with thosewho have it not. And for those with child, their period shall be till theybring forth their burden. And whosoever keepeth his duty to Allah, Hemaketh his course easy for him.
65/5 That is the commandment of Allah which He revealeth unto you.And whoso keepeth his duty to Allah, He will remit from him his evil deedsand magnify reward for him.
65/6 Lodge them where ye dwell, according to your wealth, andharass them not so as to straiten life for them. And if they are withchild, then spend for them till they bring forth their burden. Then, ifthey give suck for you, give them their due payment and consult together inkindness; but if ye make difficulties for one another, then let some otherwoman give suck for him (the father of the child).
65/7 Let him who hath abundance spend of his abundance, and hewhose provision is measured, let him spend of that which Allah hath givenhim. Allah asketh naught of any soul save that which He hath given it.Allah will vouchsafe, after hardship, ease.
65/8 And how many a community revolted against the ordinance of itsLord and His messengers, and We called it to a stern account and punishedit with dire punishment,
65/9 So that it tasted the ill-effects of its conduct, and theconsequence of its conduct was loss.
65/10 Allah hath prepared for them stern punishment; so keep yourduty to Allah, O men of understanding! O ye who believe! Now Allah hathsent down unto you a reminder,
65/11 A messenger reciting unto you the revelations of Allah madeplain, that He may bring forth those who believe and do good works fromdarkness unto light. And whosoever believeth in Allah and doeth right, Hewill bring him into Gardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to abidefor ever. Allah hath made good provision for him.
65/12 Allah it is who hath created seven heavens, and of the earththe like thereof. The commandment cometh down among them slowly, that yemay know that Allah is Able to do all things, and that Allah surroundethall things in knowledge.
