9/1 Freedom from obligation (is proclaimed) from Allah and Hismessenger toward those of the idolaters with whom ye made a treaty.
9/2 Travel freely in the land four months, and know that ye cannotescape Allah and that Allah will confound the disbelievers (in HisGuidance).
9/3 And a proclamation from Allah and His messenger to all men onthe day of the Greater Pilgrimage that Allah is free from obligation to theidolaters, and (so is) His messenger. So, if ye repent, it will be betterfor you; but if ye are averse, then know that ye cannot escape Allah. Givetidings (O Muhammad) of a painful doom to those who disbelieve,
9/4 Excepting those of the idolaters with whom ye (Muslims) have atreaty, and who have since abated nothing of your right nor have supportedanyone against you. (As for these), fulfil their treaty to them till theirterm. Lo! Allah loveth those who keep their duty (unto Him).
9/5 Then, when the sacred months have passed, slay the idolaterswherever ye find them, and take them (captive), and besiege them, andprepare for them each ambush. But if they repent and establish worship andpay the poor-due, then leave their way free. Lo! Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
9/6 And if anyone of the idolaters seeketh thy protection (OMuhammad), then protect him so that he may hear the Word of Allah, andafterward convey him to his place of safety. That is because they are afolk who know not.
9/7 How can there be a treaty with Allah and with His messengerfor the idolaters save those with whom ye made a treaty at the InviolablePlace of Worship? So long as they are true to you, be true to them. Lo!Allah loveth those who keep their duty.
9/8 How (can there be any treaty for the others) when, if theyhave the upper hand of you, they regard not pact nor honour in respect ofyou? They satisfy you with their mouths the while their hearts refuse. Andmost of them are wrongdoers.
9/9 They have purchased with the revelations of Allah a littlegain, so they debar (men) from His way. Lo! evil is that which they arewont to do.
9/10 And they observe toward a believer neither pact nor honour.These are they who are transgressors.
9/11 But if they repent and establish worship and pay the poor-due,then are they your brethren in religion. We detail Our revelations for apeople who have knowledge.
9/12 And if they break their pledges after their treaty (hath beenmade with you) and assail your religion, then fight the heads of disbelief- Lo! they have no binding oaths - in order that they may desist.
9/13 Will ye not fight a folk who broke their solemn pledges, andpurposed to drive out the messenger and did attack you first? What! Fear yethem? Now Allah hath more right that ye should fear Him, if ye arebelievers
9/14 Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and Hewill lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal thebreasts of folk who are believers.
9/15 And He will remove the anger of their hearts. Allah relentethtoward whom He will. Allah is Knower, Wise.
9/16 Or deemed ye that ye would be left (in peace) when Allah yetknoweth not those of you who strive, choosing for familiar none save Allahand His messenger and the believers? Allah is Informed of what ye do.
9/17 It is not for the idolaters to tend Allah's sanctuaries,bearing witness against themselves of disbelief. As for such, their worksare vain and in the Fire they will abide.
9/18 He only shall tend Allah's sanctuaries who believeth in Allahand the Last Day and observeth proper worship and payeth the poor-due andfeareth none save Allah. For such (only) is it possible that they can be ofthe rightly guided.
9/19 Count ye the slaking of a pilgrim's thirst and tendance of theInviolable Place of Worship as (equal to the worth of) him who believeth inAllah and the Last Day, and striveth in the way of Allah? They are notequal in the sight of Allah. Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
9/20 Those who believe, and have left their homes and striven withtheir wealth and their lives in Allah's way are of much greater worth inAllah's sight. These are they who are triumphant.
9/21 Their Lord giveth them good tidings of mercy from Him, andacceptance, and Gardens where enduring pleasure will be theirs;
9/22 There they will abide for ever. Lo! with Allah there isimmense reward.
9/23 O ye who believe! Choose not your fathers nor your brethrenfor friends if they take pleasure in disbelief rather than faith. Whoso ofyou taketh them for friends, such are wrong-doers.
9/24 Say: If your fathers, and your sons, and your brethren, andyour wives, and your tribe, and the wealth ye have acquired, andmerchandise for which ye fear that there will no sale, and dwellings yedesire are dearer to you than Allah and His messenger and striving in Hisway: then wait till Allah bringeth His command to pass. Allah guideth notwrongdoing folk.
9/25 Allah hath given you victory on many fields and on the day ofHuneyn, when ye exulted in your multitude but it availed you naught, andthe earth, vast as it is, was straitened for you; then ye turned back inflight;
9/26 Then Allah sent His peace of reassurance down upon Hismessenger and upon the believers, and sent down hosts ye could not see, andpunished those who disbelieved. Such is the reward of disbelievers.
9/27 Then afterward Allah will relent toward whom He will; forAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/28 O ye who believe! The idolaters only are unclean. So let themnot come near the Inviolable Place of Worship after this their year. If yefear poverty (from the loss of their merchandise) Allah shall preserve youof His bounty if He will. Lo! Allah is Knower, Wise.
9/29 Fight against such of those who have been given the Scriptureas believe not in Allah nor the Last Day, and forbid not that which Allahhath forbidden by His messenger, and follow not the Religion of Truth,until they pay the tribute readily, being brought low.
9/30 And the Jews say: Ezra is the son of Allah, and the Christianssay: The Messiah is the son of Allah. That is their saying with theirmouths. They imitate the saying of those who disbelieved of old. Allah(Himself) fighteth against them. How perverse are they!
9/31 They have taken as lords beside Allah their rabbis and theirmonks and the Messiah son of Mary, when they were bidden to worship onlyOne Allah. There is no Allah save Him. Be He Glorified from all that theyascribe as partner (unto Him)!
9/32 Fain would they put out the light of Allah with their mouths,but Allah disdaineth (aught) save that He shall perfect His light, howevermuch the disbelievers are averse.
9/33 He it is Who hath sent His messenger with the guidance and theReligion of Truth, that He may cause it to prevail over all religion,however much the idolaters may be averse.
9/34 O ye who believe! Lo! many of the (Jewish) rabbis and the(Christian) monks devour the wealth of mankind wantonly and debar (men)from the way of Allah. They who hoard up gold and silver and spend it notin the way of Allah, unto them give tidings (O Muhammad) of a painfuldoom,
9/35 On the day when it will (all) be heated in the fire of hell,and their foreheads and their flanks and their backs will be brandedtherewith (and it will be said unto them): Here is that which ye hoardedfor yourselves. Now taste of what ye used to hoard.
9/36 Lo! the number of the months with Allah is twelve months byAllah's ordinance in the day that He created the heavens and the earth.Four of them are sacred: that is the right religion. So wrong notyourselves in them. And wage war on all of the idolaters as they are wagingwar on all of you. And know that Allah is with those who keep their duty(unto Him).
9/37 Postponement (of a sacred month) is only an excess ofdisbelief whereby those who disbelieve are misled; they allow it one yearand forbid it (another) year, that they may make up the number of themonths which Allah hath hallowed, so that they allow that which Allah hathforbidden. The evil of their deeds is made fairseeming unto them. Allahguideth not the disbelieving folk.
9/38 O ye who believe! What aileth you that when it is said untoyou: Go forth in the way of Allah, ye are bowed down to the ground withheaviness. Take ye pleasure in the life of the world rather than in theHereafter? The comfort of the life of the world is but little in theHereafter.
9/39 If ye go not forth He will afflict you with a painful doom,and will choose instead of you a folk other than you. Ye cannot harm Him atall. Allah is Able to do all things.
9/40 If ye help him not, still Allah helped him when those whodisbelieve drove him forth, the second of two; when they two were in thecave, when he said unto his comrade: Grieve not. Lo! Allah is with us. ThenAllah caused His peace of reassurance to descend upon him and supported himwith hosts ye cannot see, and made the word of those who disbelieved thenethermost, while Allah's Word it was that became the uppermost. Allah isMighty, Wise.
9/41 Go forth, light-armed and heavy-armed, and strive with yourwealth and your lives in the way of Allah! That is best for you if ye butknew.
9/42 Had it been a near adventure and an easy journey they hadfollowed thee, but the distance seemed too far for them. Yet will theyswear by Allah (saying): If we had been able we would surely have set outwith you. They destroy their souls, and Allah knoweth that they verily areliars.
9/43 Allah forgive thee (O Muhammad)! Wherefor didst thou grantthem leave ere those who told the truth were manifest to thee and thoudidst know the liars?
9/44 Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day ask no leave ofthee lest they should strive with their wealth and their lives. Allah isAware of those who keep their duty (unto Him).
9/45 They alone ask leave of thee who believe not in Allah and theLast Day, and whose hearts feel doubt, so in their doubt they waver.
9/46 And if they had wished to go forth they would assuredly havemade ready some equipment, but Allah was averse to their being sent forthand held them back and it was said (unto them): Sit ye with the sedentary!
9/47 Had they gone forth among you they had added to you naughtsave trouble and had hurried to and fro among you, seeking to causesedition among you; and among you there are some who would have listened tothem. Allah is Aware of evil-doers.
9/48 Aforetime they sought to cause sedition and raiseddifficulties for thee till the Truth came and the decree of Allah was mademanifest, though they were loth.
9/49 Of them is he who saith: Grant me leave (to stay at home) andtempt me not. Surely it is into temptation that they (thus) have fallen.Lo! hell verily is all around the disbelievers.
9/50 If good befalleth thee (O Muhammad) it afflicteth them, and ifcalamity befalleth thee, they say: We took precaution, and they turn awaywell pleased.
9/51 Say: Naught befalleth us save that which Allah hath decreedfor us. He is our Protecting Friend. In Allah let believers put theirtrust!
9/52 Say: Can ye await for us aught save one of two good things(death or victory in Allah's way)? while we await for you that Allah willafflict you with a doom from Him or at our hands. Await then! Lo! We areawaiting with you.
9/53 Say: Pay (your contribution), willingly or unwillingly, itwill not be accepted from you. Lo! ye were ever froward folk.
9/54 And naught preventeth that their contributions should beaccepted from them save that they have disbelieved in Allah and in Hismessenger, and they come not to worship save as idlers, and pay not (theircontribution) save reluctantly.
9/55 So let not their riches nor their children please thee (OMuhammad). Allah thereby intendeth but to punish them in the life of theworld and that their souls shall pass away while they are disbelievers.
9/56 And they swear by Allah that they are in truth of you, whenthey are not of you, but they are folk who are afraid.
9/57 Had they but found a refuge, or caverns, or a place to enter,they surely had resorted thither swift as runaways.
9/58 And of them is he who defameth thee in the matter of the alms.If they are given thereof they are content, and if they are not giventhereof, behold! they are enraged.
9/59 (How much more seemly) had they been content with that whichAllah and His messenger had given them and had said: Allah sufficeth us.Allah will give us of His bounty, and (also) His messenger. Unto Allah weare suppliants.
9/60 The alms are only for the poor and the needy, and those whocollect them, and those whose hearts are to be reconciled, and to free thecaptives and the debtors, and for the cause of Allah, and (for) thewayfarer; a duty imposed by Allah. Allah is Knower, Wise.
9/61 And of them are those who vex the Prophet and say: He is onlya hearer. Say: A hearer of good for you, who believeth in Allah and is trueto the believers, and a mercy for such of you as believe. Those who vex themessenger of Allah, for them there is a painful doom.
9/62 They swear by Allah to you (Muslims) to please you, but Allah,with His messenger, hath more right that they should please Him if they arebelievers.
9/63 Know they not that whoso opposeth Allah and His messenger, hisverily is fire of hell, to abide therein? That is the extreme abasement.
9/64 The hypocrites fear lest a surah should be revealed concerningthem, proclaiming what is in their hearts. Say: Scoff (your fill)! Lo!Allah is disclosing what ye fear.
9/65 And if thou ask them (O Muhammad) they will say: We did buttalk and jest. Say: Was it at Allah and His revelations and His messengerthat ye did scoff?
9/66 Make no excuse. Ye have disbelieved after your (confession of)belief. If We forgive a party of you, a party of you We shall punishbecause they have been guilty.
9/67 The hypocrites, both men and women, proceed one from another.They enjoin the wrong, and they forbid the right, and they withhold theirhands (from spending for the cause of Allah). They forget Allah, so He hathforgotten them. Lo! the hypocrites, they are the transgressors.
9/68 Allah promiseth the hypocrites, both men and women, and thedisbelievers fire of hell for their abode. It will suffice them. Allahcurseth them, and theirs is lasting torment.
9/69 Even as those before you who were mightier than you instrength, and more affluent than you in wealth and children. They enjoyedtheir lot awhile, so ye enjoy your lot awhile even as those before you didenjoy their lot awhile. And ye prate even as they prated. Such are theywhose works have perished in the world and the Hereafter. Such are they whoare the losers.
9/70 Hath not the fame of those before them reached them - the folkof Noah, A'ad, Thamud, the folk of Abraham, the dwellers of Midian and thedisasters (which befell them)? Their messengers (from Allah) came unto themwith proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty). So Allah surely wronged them not, butthey did wrong themselves.
9/71 And the believers, men and women, are protecting friends oneof another; they enjoin the right and forbid the wrong, and they establishworship and they pay the poor-due, and they obey Allah and His messenger.As for these, Allah will have mercy on them. Lo! Allah is Mighty, Wise.
9/72 Allah promiseth to the believers, men and women, Gardensunderneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide - blessed dwellingsin Gardens of Eden. And - greater (far)! - acceptance from Allah. That isthe supreme triumph.
9/73 O Prophet! Strive against the disbelievers and the hypocrites!Be harsh with them. Their ultimate abode is hell, a hapless journey's end.
9/74 They swear by Allah that they said nothing (wrong), yet theydid say the word of disbelief, and did disbelieve after their Surrender (toAllah). And they purposed that which they could not attain, and they soughtrevenge only that Allah by His messenger should enrich them of His bounty.If they repent it will be better for them; and if they turn away, Allahwill afflict them with a painful doom in the world and the Hereafter, andthey have no protecting friend nor helper in the earth.
9/75 And of them is he who made a covenant with Allah (saying): IfHe give us of His bounty we will give alms and become of the righteous.
9/76 Yet when He gave them of His bounty, they hoarded it andturned away, averse;
9/77 So He hath made the consequence (to be) hypocrisy in theirhearts until the day when they shall meet Him, because they broke theirword to Allah that they promised Him, and because they lied.
9/78 Know they not that Allah knoweth both their secret and thethought that they confide, and that Allah is the Knower of Things Hidden?
9/79 Those who point at such of the believers as give the almswillingly and such as can find naught to give but their endeavours, andderide them - Allah (Himself) derideth them. Theirs will be a painfuldoom.
9/80 Ask forgiveness for them (O Muhammad), or ask not forgivenessfor them; though thou ask forgiveness for them seventy times Allah will notforgive them. That is because they disbelieved in Allah and His messenger,and Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
9/81 Those who were left behind rejoiced at sitting still behindthe messenger of Allah, and were averse to striving with their wealth andtheir lives in Allah's way. And they said: Go not forth in the heat! Say:The fire of hell is more intense of heat, if they but understood.
9/82 Then let them laugh a little: they will weep much, as thereward of what they used to earn.
9/83 If Allah bring thee back (from the campaign) unto a party ofthem and they ask of thee leave to go out (to fight), then say unto them:Ye shall never more go out with me nor fight with me against a foe.  Yewere content with sitting still the first time. So sit still, with theuseless.
9/84 And never (O Muhammad) pray for one of them who dieth, norstand by his grave. Lo! they disbelieved in Allah and His messenger, andthey died while they were evil-doers.
9/85 Let not their wealth nor their children please thee! Allahpurposeth only to punish them thereby in the world, and that their soulsshall pass away while they are disbelievers.
9/86 And when a surah is revealed (which saith): Believe in Allahand strive along with His messenger, the men of wealth among them still askleave of thee and say: Suffer us to be with those who sit (at home).
9/87 They are content that they should be with the useless andtheir hearts are sealed, so that they apprehend not.
9/88 But the messenger and those who believe with him strive withtheir wealth and their lives. Such are they for whom are the good things.Such are they who are the successful.
9/89 Allah hath made ready for them Gardens underneath which riversflow, wherein they will abide. That is the supreme triumph.
9/90 And those among the wandering Arabs who had an excuse came inorder that permission might be granted them. And those who lied to Allahand His messenger sat at home. A painful doom will fall on those of themwho disbelieve.
9/91 Not unto the weak nor unto the sick nor unto those who canfind naught to spend is any fault (to be imputed though they stay at home)if they are true to Allah and His messenger. Not unto the good is there anyroad (of blame). Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/92 Nor unto those whom, when they came to thee (asking) that thoushouldst mount them, thou didst tell: I cannot find whereon to mount you.They turned back with eyes flowing with tears, for sorrow that they couldnot find the means to spend.
9/93 The road (of blame) is only against those who ask for leave ofthee (to stay at home) when they are rich. They are content to be with theuseless. Allah hath sealed their hearts so that they know not.
9/94 They will make excuse to you (Muslims) when ye return untothem. Say: Make no excuse, for we shall not believe you. Allah hath told ustidings of you. Allah and His messenger will see your conduct, and then yewill be brought back unto Him Who knoweth the Invisible as well as theVisible, and He will tell you what ye used to do.
9/95 They will swear by Allah unto you, when ye return unto them,that ye may let them be. Let them be, for lo! they are unclean, and theirabode is hell as the reward for what they used to earn.
9/96 They swear unto you, that ye may accept them. Though ye acceptthem. Allah verily accepteth not wrongdoing folk.
9/97 The wandering Arabs are more hard in disbelief and hypocrisy,and more likely to be ignorant of the limits which Allah hath revealed untoHis messenger. And Allah is Knower, Wise.
9/98 And of the wandering Arabs there is he who taketh that whichhe expendeth (for the cause of Allah) as a loss, and awaiteth (evil) turnsof fortune for you (that he may be rid of it). The evil turn of fortunewill be theirs. Allah is Hearer, Knower.
9/99 And of the wandering Arabs there is he who believeth in Allahand the Last Day, and taketh that which he expendeth and also the prayersof the messenger as acceptable offerings in the sight of Allah. Lo! verilyit is an acceptable offering for them. Allah will bring them into Hismercy. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/100 And the first to lead the way, of the Muhajirin and the Ansar,and those who followed them in goodness - Allah is well pleased with themand they are well pleased with Him, and He hath made ready for them Gardensunderneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide for ever. That is thesupreme triumph.
9/101 And among those around you of the wandering Arabs there arehypocrites, and among the townspeople of Al-Madinah (there are some who)persist in hypocrisy whom thou (O Muhammad) knowest not. We, We know them,and We shall chastise them twice; then they will be relegated to a painfuldoom.
9/102 And (there are) others who have acknowledged their faults.They mixed a righteous action with another that was bad. It may be thatAllah will relent toward them. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
9/103 Take alms of their wealth, wherewith thou mayst purify themand mayst make them grow, and pray for them. Lo! thy prayer is anassuagement for them. Allah is Hearer, Knower.
9/104 Know they not that Allah is He Who accepteth repentance fromHis bondmen and taketh the alms, and that Allah is He Who is the Relenting,the Merciful.
9/105 And say (unto them): Act! Allah will behold your actions, and(so will) His messenger and the believers, and ye will be brought back tothe Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, and He will tell you what yeused to do.
9/106 And (there are) others who await Allah's decree, whether Hewill punish them or will forgive them. Allah is Knower, Wise.
9/107 And as for those who chose a place of worship out ofopposition and disbelief, and in order to cause dissent among thebelievers, and as an outpost for those who warred against Allah and Hismessenger aforetime, they will surely swear: We purposed naught save good.Allah beareth witness that they verily are liars.
9/108 Never stand (to pray) there. A place of worship which wasfound upon duty (to Allah) from the first day is more worthy that thoushouldst stand (to pray) therein, wherein are men who love to purifythemselves. Allah loveth the purifiers.
9/109 Is he who founded his building upon duty to Allah and His goodpleasure better; or he who founded his building on the brink of acrumbling, overhanging precipice so that it toppled with him into the fireof hell? Allah guideth not wrongdoing folk.
9/110 The building which they built will never cease to be amisgiving in their hearts unless their hearts be torn to pieces. Allah isKnower, Wise.
9/111 Lo! Allah hath bought from the believers their lives and theirwealth because the Garden will be theirs: they shall fight in the way ofAllah and shall slay and be slain. It is a promise which is binding on Himin the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur'an. Who fulfilleth His covenantbetter than Allah? Rejoice then in your bargain that ye have made, for thatis the supreme triumph.
9/112 (Triumphant) are those who turn repentant (to Allah), thosewho serve (Him), those who praise (Him), those who fast, those who bowdown, those who fall prostrate (in worship), those who enjoin the right andwho forbid the wrong and those who keep the limits (ordained) of Allah -And give glad tidings to believers!
9/113 It is not for the Prophet, and those who believe, to pray forthe forgiveness of idolaters even though they may be near of kin (to them)after it hath become clear that they are people of hell-fire.
9/114 The prayer of Abraham for the forgiveness of his father wasonly because of a promise he had promised him, but when it had become clearunto him that he (his father) was an enemy to Allah he (Abraham) disownedhim. Lo! Abraham was soft of heart, long-suffering.
9/115 It was never Allah's (part) that He should send a folk astrayafter He had guided them until He had made clear unto them what they shouldavoid. Lo! Allah is Aware of all things.
9/116 Lo! Allah! Unto Him belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavensand the earth. He quickeneth and He giveth death. And ye have, instead ofAllah, no protecting friend nor helper.
9/117 Allah hath turned in mercy to the Prophet, and to theMuhajirin and the Ansar who followed him in the hour of hardship. After thehearts of a party of them had almost swerved aside, then turned He untothem in mercy. Lo! He is Full of Pity, Merciful for them.
9/118 And to the three also (did He turn in mercy) who were leftbehind, when the earth, vast as it is, was straitened for them, and theirown souls were straitened for them till they bethought them that there isno refuge from Allah save toward Him. Then turned He unto them in mercythat they (too) might turn (repentant unto Him). Lo! Allah! He is theRelenting, the Merciful.
9/119 O ye who believe! Be careful of your duty to Allah, and bewith the truthful.
9/120 It is not for the townsfolk of Al-Madinah and for those aroundthem of the wandering Arabs so stay behind the messenger of Allah andprefer their lives to his life. That is because neither thirst nor toil norhunger afflicteth them in the way of Allah, nor step they any step thatangereth the disbelievers, nor gain they from the enemy a gain, but a gooddeed is recorded for them therefor. Lo! Allah loseth not the wages of thegood.
9/121 Nor spend they any spending, small or great, nor do they crossa valley, but it is recorded for them, that Allah may repay them the bestof what they used to do.
9/122 And the believers should not all go out to fight. Of everytroop of them, a party only should go forth, that they (who are leftbehind) may gain sound knowledge in religion, and that they may warn theirfolk when they return to them, so that they may beware.
9/123 O ye who believe! Fight those of the disbelievers who are nearto you, and let them find harshness in you, and know that Allah is withthose who keep their duty (unto Him).
9/124 And whenever a surah is revealed there are some of them whosay: Which one of you hath thus increased in faith? As for those whobelieve, it hath increased them in faith and they rejoice (therefor).
9/125 But as for those in whose hearts is disease, it only addethwickedness to their wickedness, and they die while they are disbelievers.
9/126 See they not that they are tested once or twice in every year?Still they turn not in repentance, neither pay they heed.
9/127 And whenever a surah is revealed, they look one at another (aswho should say): Doth anybody see you? Then they turn away. Allah turnethaway their hearts because they are a folk who understand not.
9/128 There hath come unto you a messenger, (one) of yourselves,unto whom aught that ye are overburdened is grievous, full of concern foryou, for the believers full of pity, merciful.
9/129 Now, if they turn away (O Muhammad) say: Allah sufficeth me.There is no Allah save Him. In Him have I put my trust, and He is Lord of theTremendous Throne.
