10/1 Alif. Lam. Ra. These are verses of the Wise Scripture.
10/2 Is it a wonder for mankind that We have inspired a man amongthem, saying: Warn mankind and bring unto those who believe the goodtidings that they have a sure footing with their Lord? The disbelieverssay: Lo! this is a mere wizard.
10/3 Lo! your Lord is Allah Who created the heavens and the earthin six Days, then He established Himself upon the Throne, directing allthings. There is no intercessor (with Him) save after His permission. Thatis Allah, your Lord, so worship Him. Oh, will ye not remind?
10/4 Unto Him is the return of all of you; it is a promise of Allahin truth. Lo! He produceth creation, then reproduceth it, that He mayreward those who believe and do good works with equity; while, as for thosewho disbelieve, theirs will be a boiling drink and painful doom becausethey disbelieved.
10/5 He it is Who appointed the sun a splendour and the moon alight, and measured for her stages, that ye might know the number of theyears, and the reckoning. Allah created not (all) that save in truth. Hedetaileth the revelations for people who have knowledge.
10/6 Lo! in the difference of day and night and all that Allah hathcreated in the heavens and the earth are portents, verily, for folk whoward off (evil).
10/7 Lo! those who expect not the meeting with Us but desire thelife of the world and feel secure therein, and those who are neglectful ofOur revelations,
10/8 Their home will be the Fire because of what they used toearn.
10/9 Lo! those who believe and do good works, their Lord guideththem by their faith. Rivers will flow beneath them in the Gardens ofDelight,
10/10 Their prayer therein will be: Glory be to Thee, O Allah! andtheir greeting therein will be: Peace. And the conclusion of their prayerwill be: Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds!
10/11 If Allah were to hasten on for men the ill (that they haveearned) as they would hasten on the good, their respite would already haveexpired. But We suffer those who look not for the meeting with Us to wanderblindly on in their contumacy.
10/12 And if misfortune touch a man he crieth unto Us, (whilereclining) on his side, or sitting or standing, but when We have relievedhim of the misfortune he goeth his way as though he had not cried unto Usbecause of a misfortune that afflicted him. Thus is what they do made(seeming) fair unto the prodigal.
10/13 We destroyed the generations before you when they did wrong;and their messengers (from Allah) came unto them with clear proofs (of HisSovereignty) but they would not believe. Thus do We reward the guiltyfolk.
10/14 Then We appointed you viceroys in the earth after them, thatWe might see how ye behave.
10/15 And when Our clear revelations are recited unto them, they wholook not for the meeting with Us say: Bring a Lecture other than this, orchange it. Say (O Muhammad): It is not for me to change it of my accord. Ionly follow that which is inspired in me. Lo! if I disobey my Lord I fearthe retribution of an awful Day.
10/16 Say: If Allah had so willed I should not have recited it toyou nor would He have made it known to you. I dwelt among you a wholelifetime before it (came to me). Have ye then no sense?
10/17 Who doeth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie concerningAllah and denieth His revelations? Lo! the guilty never are successful.
10/18 They worship beside Allah that which neither hurteth them norprofiteth them, and they say: These are our intercessors with Allah. Say:Would ye inform Allah of (something) that He knoweth not in the heavens orin the earth?  Praised be He and High Exalted above all that ye associate(with Him)!
10/19 Mankind were but one community; then they differed; and had itnot been for a word that had already gone forth from thy Lord it had beenjudged between them in respect of that wherein they differ.
10/20 And they will say: If only a portent were sent down upon himfrom his Lord! Then say, (O Muhammad): The Unseen belongeth to Allah. Sowait! Lo! I am waiting with you.
10/21 And when We cause mankind to taste of mercy after someadversity which had afflicted them, behold! they have some plot against Ourrevelations. Say: Allah is more swift in plotting. Lo! Our messengers writedown that which ye plot.
10/22 He it is Who maketh you to go on the land and the sea till,when ye are in the ships and they sail with them with a fair breeze andthey are glad therein, a storm-wind reacheth them and the wave cometh untothem from every side and they deem that they are overwhelmed therein;(then) they cry unto Allah, making their faith pure for Him only: If Thoudeliver us from this, we truly will be of the thankful.
10/23 Yet when He hath delivered them, behold! they rebel in theearth wrongfully. O mankind! Your rebellion is only against yourselves. (Yehave) enjoyment of the life of the world; then unto Us is your return andWe shall proclaim unto you what ye used to do.
10/24 The similitude of the life of the world is only as water whichWe send down from the sky, then the earth's growth of that which men andcattle eat mingleth with it till, when the earth hath taken on herornaments and is embellished, and her people deem that they are masters ofher, Our commandment cometh by night or by day and We make it as reapedcorn as if it had not flourished yesterday. Thus do we expound therevelations for people who reflect.
10/25 And Allah summoneth to the abode of peace, and leadeth whom Hewill to a straight path.
10/26 For those who do good is the best (reward) and more (thereto).Neither dust nor ignominy cometh near their faces. Such are rightful ownersof the Garden; they will abide therein.
10/27 And those who earn ill-deeds, (for them) requital of eachill-deed by the like thereof; and ignominy overtaketh them - They have noprotector from Allah - as if their faces had been covered with a cloak ofdarkest night. Such are rightful owners of the Fire; they will abidetherein.
10/28 On the day when We gather them all together, then We say untothose who ascribed partners (unto Us): Stand back, ye and your (pretended)partners (of Allah)! And We separate them, the one from the other, andtheir (pretended) partners say: It was not us ye worshipped.
10/29 Allah sufficeth as a witness between us and you, that we wereunaware of your worship.
10/30 There doth every soul experience that which it did aforetime,and they are returned unto Allah, their rightful Lord, and that which theyused to invent hath failed them.
10/31 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Who provideth for you from thesky and the earth, or Who owneth hearing and sight; and Who bringeth forththe living from the dead and bringeth forth the dead from the living; andWho directeth the course? They will say: Allah. Then say: Will ye not thenkeep your duty (unto Him)?
10/32 Such then is Allah, your rightful Lord. After the Truth whatis there saving error? How then are ye turned away!
10/33 Thus is the Word of thy Lord justified concerning those who dowrong: that they believe not.
10/34 Say: Is there of your partners (whom ye ascribe unto Allah)one that produceth Creation and then reproduceth it? Say: Allah producethCreation, then reproduceth it. How then, are ye misled!
10/35 Say: Is there of your partners (whom ye ascribe unto Allah)one that leadeth to the Truth? Say: Allah leadeth to the Truth. Is He Wholeadeth to the Truth more deserving that He should be followed, or he whofindeth not the way unless he (himself) be guided. What aileth you? Howjudge ye?
10/36 Most of them follow not but conjecture. Assuredly conjecturecan by no means take the place of truth. Lo! Allah is Aware of what theydo.
10/37 And this Qur'an is not such as could ever be invented indespite of Allah; but it is a confirmation of that which was before it andan exposition of that which is decreed for mankind - Therein is no doubt -from the Lord of the Worlds.
10/38 Or say they: He hath invented it? Say: Then bring a surah likeunto it, and call (for help) on all ye can besides Allah, if ye aretruthful.
10/39 Nay, but they denied that, the knowledge whereof they couldnot compass, and whereof the interpretation (in events) hath not yet comeunto them. Even so did those before them deny. Then see what was theconsequence for the wrong-doers!
10/40 And of them is he who believeth therein, and of them is he whobelieveth not therein, and thy Lord is Best Aware of the corrupters.
10/41 And if they deny thee, say: Unto me my work, and unto you yourwork. Ye are innocent of what I do, and I am innocent of what ye do.
10/42 And of them are some who listen unto thee. But canst thou makethe deaf to hear even though they apprehend not?
10/43 And of them is he who looketh toward thee. But canst thouguide the blind even though they see not?
10/44 Lo! Allah wrongeth not mankind in aught; but mankind wrongthemselves.
10/45 And on the day when He shall gather them together, (when itwill seem) as though they had tarried but an hour of the day, recognisingone another, those will verily have perished who denied the meeting withAllah and were not guided.
10/46 Whether We let thee (O Muhammad) behold something of thatwhich We promise them or (whether We) cause thee to die, still unto Us istheir return, and Allah, moreover, is Witness over what they do.
10/47 And for every nation there is a messenger. And when theirmessenger cometh (on the Day of Judgment) it will be judged between themfairly, and they will not be wronged.
10/48 And they say: When will this promise be fulfilled, if ye aretruthful?
10/49 Say: I have no power to hurt or benefit myself, save thatwhich Allah willeth. For every nation there is an appointed time. Whentheir time cometh, then they cannot put it off an hour, nor hasten (it).
10/50 Say: Have ye thought: When His doom cometh unto you as a raidby night, or in the (busy) day; what is there of it that the guilty onesdesire to hasten?
10/51 Is it (only) then, when it hath befallen you, that ye willbelieve? What! (Believe) now, when (until now) ye have been hastening it on(through disbelief)?
10/52 Then will it be said unto those who dealt unjustly Taste thetorment of eternity. Are ye requited aught save what ye used to earn?
10/53 And they ask thee to inform them (saying): Is it true? Say:Yea, by my Lord, verily it is true, and ye cannot escape.
10/54 And if each soul that doeth wrong had all that is in the earthit would seek to ransom itself therewith; and they will feel remorse withinthem, when they see the doom. But it hath been judged between them fairlyand they are not wronged.
10/55 Lo! verily all that is in the heavens and the earth isAllah's. Lo! verily Allah's promise is true. But most of them know not.
10/56 He quickeneth and giveth death, and unto Him ye will bereturned.
10/57 O mankind! There hath come unto you an exhortation from yourLord, a balm for that which is in the breasts, a guidance and a mercy forbelievers.
10/58 Say: In the bounty of Allah and in His mercy: therein let themrejoice. It is better than what they hoard.
10/59 Say: Have ye considered what provision Allah hath sent downfor you, how ye have made of it lawful and unlawful? Hath Allah permittedyou, or do ye invent a lie concerning Allah?
10/60 And what think those who invent a lie concerning Allah (willbe their plight) upon the Day of Resurrection? Lo! Allah truly is Bountifultoward mankind, but most of them give not thanks.
10/61 And thou (Muhammad) art not occupied with any business andthou recitest not a Lecture from this (Scripture), and ye (mankind) performno act, but We are Witness of you when ye are engaged therein. And not anatom's weight in the earth or in the sky escapeth your Lord, nor what isless than that or greater than that, but it is (written) in a clear Book.
10/62 Lo! verily the friends of Allah are (those) on whom fear(cometh) not, nor do they grieve?
10/63 Those who believe and keep their duty (to Allah).
10/64 Theirs are good tidings in the life of the world and in theHereafter - There is no changing the Words of Allah - that is the SupremeTriumph.
10/65 And let not their speech grieve thee (O Muhammad). Lo! powerbelongeth wholly to Allah. He is the Hearer, the Knower.
10/66 Lo! is it not unto Allah that belongeth whosoever is in theheavens and whosoever is in the earth? Those who follow aught instead ofAllah follow not (His) partners. They follow only a conjecture, and they dobut guess.
10/67 He it is Who hath appointed for you the night that ye shouldrest therein and the day giving sight. Lo! herein verily are portents for afolk that heed.
10/68 They say: Allah hath taken (unto Him) a son - Glorified be He!He hath no needs! His is all that is in the heavens and all that is in theearth. Ye have no warrant for this. Tell ye concerning Allah that which yeknow not?
10/69 Say: Verily those who invent a lie concerning Allah will notsucceed.
10/70 This world's portion (will be theirs), then unto Us is theirreturn. Then We make them taste a dreadful doom because they used todisbelieve.
10/71 Recite unto them the story of Noah, when he told his people: Omy people! If my sojourn (here) and my reminding you by Allah's revelationsare an offence unto you, in Allah have I put my trust, so decide upon yourcourse of action you and your partners. Let not your course of action be indoubt for you. Then have at me, give me no respite.
10/72 But if ye are averse I have asked of you no wage. My wage isthe concern of Allah only, and I am commanded to be of those who surrender(unto Him).
10/73 But they denied him, so We saved him and those with him in theship, and made them viceroys (in the earth), while We drowned those whodenied Our revelations. See then the nature of the consequence for thosewho had been warned.
10/74 Then, after him, We sent messengers unto their folk, and theybrought them clear proofs. But they were not ready to believe in that whichthey before denied. Thus print We on the hearts of the transgressors.
10/75 Then, after them, We sent Moses and Aaron unto Pharaoh and hischiefs with Our revelations, but they were arrogant and were a guiltyfolk.
10/76 And when the Truth from Our presence came unto them, theysaid: Lo! this is mere magic.
10/77 Moses said: Speak ye (so) of the Truth when it hath come untoyou? Is this magic? Now magicians thrive not.
10/78 They said: Hast thou come unto us to pervert us from that(faith) in which we found our fathers, and that you two may own the placeof greatness in the land? We will not believe you two.
10/79 And Pharaoh said: Bring every cunning wizard unto me.
10/80 And when the wizards came, Moses said unto them: Cast yourcast!
10/81 And when they had cast, Moses said: That which ye have broughtis magic. Lo! Allah will make it vain. Lo! Allah upholdeth not the work ofmischief-makers.
10/82 And Allah will vindicate the Truth by His words, however muchthe guilty be averse.
10/83 But none trusted Moses, save some scions of his people, (andthey were) in fear of Pharaoh and their chiefs, that he would persecutethem. Lo! Pharaoh was verily a tyrant in the land, and lo! he verily was ofthe wanton.
10/84 And Moses said: O my people! If ye have believed in Allah thenput trust in Him, if ye have indeed surrendered (unto Him)!
10/85 They said: In Allah we put trust. Our Lord! Oh, make us not alure for the wrongdoing folk;
10/86 And, of Thy mercy, save us from the folk that disbelieve.
10/87 And We inspired Moses and his brother, (saying): Appointhouses for your people in Egypt and make your houses oratories, andestablish worship. And give good news to the believers.
10/88 And Moses said: Our Lord! Lo! Thou hast given Pharaoh and hischiefs splendour and riches in the life of the world, Our Lord! that theymay lead men astray from Thy way. Our Lord! Destroy their riches and hardentheir hearts so that they believe not till they see the painful doom.
10/89 He said: Your prayer is heard. Do ye twain keep to thestraight path, and follow not the road of those who have no knowledge.
10/90 And We brought the Children of Israel across the sea, andPharaoh with his hosts pursued them in rebellion and transgression, till,when the (fate of) drowning overtook him, he exclaimed: I believe thatthere is no Allah save Him in Whom the Children of Israel believe, and I amof those who surrender (unto Him).
10/91 What! Now! When hitherto thou hast rebelled and been of thewrong-doers?
10/92 But this day We save thee in thy body that thou mayst be aportent for those after thee. Lo! most of mankind are heedless of Ourportents.
10/93 And We verily did allot unto the Children of Israel a fixedabode, and did provide them with good things; and they differed not untilthe knowledge came unto them. Lo! thy Lord will judge between them on theDay of Resurrection concerning that wherein they used to differ.
10/94 And if thou (Muhammad) art in doubt concerning that which Wereveal unto thee, then question those who read the Scripture (that was)before thee. Verily the Truth from thy Lord hath come unto thee. So be notthou of the waverers.
10/95 And be not thou of those who deny the revelations of Allah,for then wert thou of the losers.
10/96 Lo! those for whom the word of thy Lord (concerning sinners)hath effect will not believe,
10/97 Though every token come unto them, till they see the painfuldoom.
10/98 If only there had been a community (of all those that weredestroyed of old) that believed and profited by its belief as did the folkof Jonah! When they believed We drew off from them the torment of disgracein the life of the world and gave them comfort for a while.
10/99 And if thy Lord willed, all who are in the earth would havebelieved together. Wouldst thou (Muhammad) compel men until they arebelievers?
10/100 It is not for any soul to believe save by the permission ofAllah. He hath set uncleanness upon those who have no sense.
10/101 Say: Behold what is in the heavens and the earth! Butrevelations and warnings avail not folk who will not believe.
10/102 What expect they save the like of the days of those who passedaway before them? Say: Expect then! I am with you among the expectant.
10/103 Then shall We save Our messengers and the believers, in likemanner (as of old). It is incumbent upon Us to save believers.
10/104 Say (O Muhammad): O mankind! If ye are in doubt of myreligion, then (know that) I worship not those whom ye worship instead ofAllah, but I worship Allah Who causeth you to die, and I have beencommanded to be of the believers.
10/105 And, (O Muhammad) set thy purpose resolutely for religion, asa man by nature upright, and be not of those who ascribe partners (toAllah).
10/106 And cry not, beside Allah, unto that which cannot profit theenor hurt thee, for if thou didst so then wert thou of the wrong-doers.
10/107 If Allah afflicteth thee with some hurt, there is none who canremove it save Him; and if He desireth good for thee, there is none who canrepel His bounty. He striketh with it whom He will of his bondmen. He isthe Forgiving, the Merciful.
10/108 Say: O mankind! Now hath the Truth from your Lord come untoyou. So whosoever is guided, is guided only for (the good of) his soul, andwhosoever erreth erreth only against it. And I am not a warder over you.
10/109 And (O Muhammad) follow that which is inspired in thee, andforbear until Allah give judgment. And He is the Best of Judges.
