33/1 O Prophet! be careful of (your duty to) Allah and do notcomply with (the wishes of) the unbelievers and thehypocrites; surely Allah is Knowing, Wise;
33/2 And follow what is revealed to you from your Lord; surelyAllah is Aware of what you do;
33/3 And rely on Allah; and Allah is sufficient for aProtector.
33/4 Allah has not made for any man two hearts within him; norhas He made your wives whose backs you liken to the backs ofyour mothers as your mothers, nor has He made those whom youassert to be your sons your real sons; these are the wordsof your mouths; and Allah speaks the truth and He guides tothe way.
33/5 Assert their relationship to their fathers; this is moreequitable with Allah; but if you do not know their fathers,then they are your brethren in faith and your friends; andthere is no blame on you concerning that in which you made amistake, but (concerning) that which your hearts dopurposely (blame may rest on you), and Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
33/6 The Prophet has a greater claim on the faithful than theyhave on themselves, and his wives are (as) their mothers;and the possessors of relationship have the better claim inthe ordinance of Allah to inheritance, one with respect toanother, than (other) believers, and (than) those who havefled (their homes), except that you do some good to yourfriends; this is written in the Book.
33/7 And when We made a covenant with the prophets and withyou, and with Nuh and Ibrahim and Musa and Isa, son ofMarium, and We made with them a strong covenant
33/8 That He may question the truthful of their truth, and Hehas prepared for the unbelievers a painful punishment.
33/9 O you who believe! call to mind the favor of Allah to youwhen there came down upon you hosts, so We sent against thema strong wind and hosts, that you saw not, and Allah isSeeing what you do.
33/10 When they came upon you from above you and from belowyou, and when the eyes turned dull, and the hearts rose upto the throats, and you began to think diverse thoughts ofAllah.
33/11 There the believers were tried and they were shaken withsevere shaking.
33/12 And when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts was adisease began to say: Allah and His Messenger did not promiseus (victory) but only to deceive.
33/13 And when a party of them said: O people of Yasrib! thereIS no place to stand for you (here), therefore go back; anda party of them asked permission of the prophet, saying.Surely our houses are exposed; and they were not exposed;they only desired to fly away.
33/14 And if an entry were made upon them from the outlyingparts of it, then they were asked to wage war, they wouldcertainly have done it, and they would not have stayed in itbut a little while.
33/15 And certainly they had made a covenant with Allahbefore, that) they would not turn (their) backs; and Allah'scovenant shall be inquired of.
33/16 Say: Flight shall not do you any good if you fly fromdeath or slaughter, and in that case you will not be allowedto enjoy yourselves but a little.
33/17 Say: Who is it that can withhold you from Allah if Heintends to do you evil, rather He intends to show you mercy?And they will not find for themselves besides Allah anyguardian or a helper.
33/18 Allah knows indeed those among you who hinder others andthose who say to their brethren: Come to us; and they comenot to the fight but a little,
33/19 Being niggardly with respect to you; but when fearcomes, you will see them looking to you, their eyes rollinglike one swooning because of death; but when the fear isgone they smite you with sharp tongues, being niggardly ofthe good things. These have not believed, therefore Allahhas made their doing naught; and this is easy to Allah.
33/20 They think the allies are not gone, and if the alliesshould come (again) they would fain be in the deserts withthe desert Arabs asking for news about you, and if they wereamong you they would not fight save a little.
33/21 Certainly you have in the Messenger of Allah an excellentexemplar for him who hopes in Allah and the latter day andremembers Allah much.
33/22 And when the believers saw the allies, they said: Thisis what Allah and His Messenger promised us, and Allah and HisMessenger spoke the truth; and it only increased them in faithand submission.
33/23 Of the believers are men who are true to the covenantwhich they made with Allah: so of them is he whoaccomplished his vow, and of them is he who yet waits, andthey have not changed in the least
33/24 That Allah may reward the truthful for their truth, andpunish the hypocrites if He please or turn to them(mercifully); surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
33/25 And Allah turned back the unbelievers in their rage;they did not obtain any advantage, and Allah sufficed thebelievers in fighting; and Allah is Strong, Mighty.
33/26 And He drove down those of the followers of the Book whobacked them from their fortresses and He cast awe into theirhearts; some you killed and you took captive another part.
33/27 And He made you heirs to their land and their dwellingsand their property, and (to) a land which you have not yettrodden, and Allah has power over all things.
33/28 O Prophet! say to your wives: If you desire this world'slife and its adornment, then come, I will give you aprovision and allow you to depart a goodly departing
33/29 And if you desire Allah and His Messenger and the latterabode, then surely Allah has prepared for the doers of goodamong you a mighty reward.
33/30 O wives of the prophet! whoever of you commits an openindecency, the punishment shall be increased to her doubly;and this IS easy to Allah.
33/31 And whoever of you is obedient to Allah and His Messengerand does good, We will give to her her reward doubly, and Wehave prepared for her an honorable sustenance.
33/32 O wives of the Prophet! you are not like any other ofthe women; If you will be on your guard, then be not soft in(your) speech, lest he in whose heart is a disease yearn;and speak a good word.
33/33 And stay in your houses and do not display your finerylike the displaying of the ignorance of yore; and keep upprayer, and pay the poor-rate, and obey Allah and HisMessenger. Allah only desires to keep away the uncleannessfrom you, O people of the House! and to purify you a(thorough) purifying.
33/34 And keep to mind what is recited in your houses of thecommunications of Allah and the wisdom; surely Allah isKnower of subtleties, Aware.
33/35 Surely the men who submit and the women who submit, andthe believing men and the believing women, and the obeyingmen and the obeying women, and the truthful men and thetruthful women, and the patient men and the patient womenand the humble men and the humble women, and the almsgivingmen and the almsgiving women, and the fasting men and thefasting women, and the men who guard their private parts andthe women who guard, and the men who remember Allah much andthe women who remember-- Allah has prepared for themforgiveness and a mighty reward.
33/36 And it behoves not a believing man and a believing womanthat they should have any choice in their matter when Allahand His Messenger have decided a matter; and whoever disobeysAllah and His Messenger, he surely strays off a manifeststraying.
33/37 And when you said to him to whom Allah had shown favorand to whom you had shown a favor: Keep your wife toyourself and be careful of (your duty to) Allah; and youconcealed in your soul what Allah would bring to light, andyou feared men, and Allah had a greater right that youshould fear Him. But when Zaid had accomplished his want ofher, We gave her to you as a wife, so that there should beno difficulty for the believers in respect of the wives oftheir adopted sons, when they have accomplished their wantof them; and Allah's command shall be performed.
33/38 There is no harm in the Prophet doing that which Allahhas ordained for him; such has been the course of Allah withrespect to those who have gone before; and the command ofAllah is a decree that is made absolute:
33/39 Those who deliver the messages of Allah and fear Him,and do not fear any one but Allah; and Allah is sufficientto take account.
33/40 Muhammad is not the father of any of your men, but he isthe Messenger of Allah and the Last of the prophets; and Allahis cognizant of all things.
33/41 O you who believe! remember Allah, rememberingfrequently,
33/42 And glorify Him morning and evening.
33/43 He it is Who sends His blessings on you, and (so do) Hisangels, that He may bring you forth out of utter darknessinto the light; and He is Merciful to the believers.
33/44 Their salutation on the day that they meet Him shall be,Peace, and He has prepared for them an honourable reward.
33/45 O Prophet! surely We have sent you as a witness, and asa bearer of good news and as a warner,
33/46 And as one inviting to Allah by His permission, and as alight-giving torch.
33/47 And give to the believers the good news that they shallhave a great grace from Allah.
33/48 And be not compliant to the unbelievers and thehypocrites, and leave unregarded their annoying talk, andrely on Allah; and Allah is sufficient as a Protector.
33/49 O you who believe! when you marry the believing women,then divorce them before you touch them, you have in theircase no term which you should reckon; so make some provisionfor them and send them forth a goodly sending forth.
33/50 O Prophet! surely We have made lawful to you your wiveswhom you have given their dowries, and those whom your righthand possesses out of those whom Allah has given to you asprisoners of war, and the daughters of your paternal unclesand the daughters of your paternal aunts, and the daughtersof your maternal uncles and the daughters of your maternalaunts who fled with you; and a believing woman if she gaveherself to the Prophet, if the Prophet desired to marryher-- specially for you, not for the (rest of) believers; Weknow what We have ordained for them concerning their wivesand those whom their right hands possess in order that noblame may attach to you; and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
33/51 You may put off whom you please of them, and you maytake to you whom you please, and whom you desire of thosewhom you had separated provisionally; no blame attaches toyou; this is most proper, so that their eyes may be cool andthey may not grieve, and that they should be pleased, all ofthem with what you give them, and Allah knows what is inyour hearts; and Allah is Knowing, Forbearing.
33/52 It is not allowed to you to take women afterwards, northat you should change them for other wives, though theirbeauty be pleasing to you, except what your right handpossesses and Allah is Watchful over all things.
33/53 O you who believe! do not enter the houses of theProphet unless permission is given to you for a meal, notwaiting for its cooking being finished-- but when you areinvited, enter, and when you have taken the food, thendisperse-- not seeking to listen to talk; surely this givesthe Prophet trouble, but he forbears from you, and Allahdoes not forbear from the truth And when you ask of them anygoods, ask of them from behind a curtain; this is purer foryour hearts and (for) their hearts; and it does not behoveyou that you should give trouble to the Messenger of Allah,nor that you should marry his wives after him ever; surelythis is grievous in the sight of Allah.
33/54 If you do a thing openly or do it in secret, then surelyAllah is Cognizant of all things.
33/55 There is no blame on them in respect of their fathers,nor their brothers, nor their brothers' sons, nor theirsisters' sons nor their own women, nor of what their righthands possess; and be careful of (your duty to) Allah;surely Allah is a witness of all things.
33/56 Surely Allah and His angels bless the Prophet; O you whobelieve! call for (Divine) blessings on him and salute himwith a (becoming) salutation.
33/57 Surely (as for) those who speak evil things of Allah andHis Messenger, Allah has cursed them in this world and thehere after, and He has prepared for them a chastisementbringing disgrace.
33/58 And those who speak evil things of the believing men andthe believing women without their having earned (it), theyare guilty indeed of a false accusation and a manifest sin.
33/59 O Prophet! say to your wives and your daughters and thewomen of the believers that they let down upon them theirover-garments; this will be more proper, that they may beknown, and thus they will not be given trouble; and Allah isForgiving, Merciful.
33/60 If the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is a diseaseand the agitators in the city do not desist, We shall mostcertainly set you over them, then they shall not be yourneighbors in it but for a little while;
33/61 Cursed: wherever they are found they shall be seized andmurdered, a (horrible) murdering.
33/62 (Such has been) the course of Allah with respect tothose who have gone before; and you shall not find anychange in the course of Allah.
33/63 Men ask you about the hour; say: The knowledge of it isonly with Allah, and what will make you comprehend that the: hour may be nigh.
33/64 Surely Allah has cursed the unbelievers and has preparedfor them a burning fire,
33/65 To abide therein for a long time; they shall not find aprotector or a helper.
33/66 On the day when their faces shall be turned back intothe fire, they shall say: O would that we had obeyed Allahand obeyed the Messenger!
33/67 And they shall say: O our Lord! surely we obeyed ourleaders and our great men, so they led us astray from thepath;
33/68 O our Lord! give them a double punishment and curse themwith a great curse.
33/69 O you who believe! be not like those who spoke evilthings of Musa, but Allah cleared him of what they said, andhe was worthy of regard with Allah.
33/70 O you who believe! be careful of(your duty to) Allah andspeak the right word,
33/71 He will put your deeds into a right state for you, andforgive you your faults; and whoever obeys Allah and HisMessenger, he indeed achieves a mighty success.
33/72 Surely We offered the trust to the heavens and the earthand the mountains, but they refused to be unfaithful to itand feared from it, and man has turned unfaithful to it;surely he is unjust, ignorant;
33/73 So Allah will chastise the hypocritical men and thehypocritical women and the polytheistic men and thepolytheistic women, and Allah will turn (mercifully) to thebelieving women, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
