29/1 Alif Lam Mim.
29/2 Do men think that they will be left alone on saying, Webelieve, and not be tried?
29/3 And certainly We tried those before them, so Allah willcertainly know those who are true and He will certainly knowthe liars.
29/4 Or do they who work evil think that they will escape Us?Evil is it that they judge!
29/5 Whoever hopes to meet Allah, the term appointed by Allahwill then most surely come; and He is the Hearing, theKnowing.
29/6 And whoever strives hard, he strives only for his ownsoul; most surely Allah is Self-sufficient, above (need of)the worlds.
29/7 And (as for) those who believe and do good, We will mostcertainly do away with their evil deeds and We will mostcertainly reward them the best of what they did.
29/8 And We have enjoined on man goodness to his parents, andif they contend with you that you should associate (others)with Me, of which you have no knowledge, do not obey them,to Me is your return, so I will inform you of what you did.
29/9 And (as for) those who believe and do good, We will mostsurely cause them to enter among the good.
29/10 And among men is he who says: We believe in Allah; butwhen he is persecuted in (the way of) Allah he thinks thepersecution of men to be as the chastisement of Allah; andif there come assistance from your Lord, they would mostcertainly say: Surely we were with you. What! is not Allahthe best knower of what is in the breasts of mankind.
29/11 And most certainly Allah will know those who believe andmost certainly He will know the hypocrites.
29/12 And those who disbelieve say to those who believe:Follow our path and we will bear your wrongs. And nevershall they be the bearers of any of their wrongs; mostsurely they are liars.
29/13 And most certainly they shall carry their own burdens,and other burdens with their own burdens, and most certainlythey shall be questioned on the resurrection day as to whatthey forged.
29/14 And certainly We sent Nuh to his people, so he remainedamong them a thousand years save fifty years. And the delugeovertook them, while they were unjust.
29/15 So We delivered him and the inmates of the ark, and madeit a sign to the nations.
29/16 And (We sent) Ibrahim, when he said to his people: ServeAllah and be careful of (your duty to) Him; this is best foryou, if you did but know:
29/17 You only worship idols besides Allah and you create alie surely they whom you serve besides Allah do not controlfor you any sustenance, therefore seek the sustenance fromAllah and serve Him and be grateful to Him; to Him you shallbe brought back.
29/18 And if you reject (the truth), nations before you didindeed reject (the truth); and nothing is incumbent on themessenger but a plain delivering (of the message).
29/19 What! do they not consider how Allah originates thecreation, then reproduces it? Surely that is easy to Allah.
29/20 Say: Travel in the earth and see how He makes the firstcreation, then Allah creates the latter creation; surelyAllah has power over all things.
29/21 He punishes whom He pleases and has mercy on whom Hepleases, and to Him you shall be turned back.
29/22 And you shall not escape in the earth nor in the heaven,and you have neither a protector nor a helper besides Allah.
29/23 And (as to) those who disbelieve in the communicationsof Allah and His meeting, they have despaired of My mercy,and these it is that shall have a painful punishment.
29/24 So naught was the answer of his people except that theysaid: Slay him or burn him; then Allah delivered him fromthe fire; most surely there are signs in this for a peoplewho believe.
29/25 And he said: You have only taken for yourselves idolsbesides Allah by way of friendship between you in thisworld's life, then on the resurrection day some of you shalldeny others, and some of you shall curse others, and yourabode is the fire, and you shall not have any helpers.
29/26 And Lut believed in Him, and he said: I am fleeing to myLord, surely He is the Mighty, the Wise.
29/27 And We granted him Ishaq and Yaqoub, and caused the tprophethood and the book to remain in his seed, and We gavehim his reward in this world, and in the hereafter he willmost surely be among the good.
29/28 And (We sent) Lut when he said to his people: Mostsurely you are guilty of an indecency which none of thenations has ever done before you;
29/29 What! do you come to the males and commit robbery on thehighway, and you commit evil deeds in your assemblies? Butnothing was the answer of his people except that they said:Bring on us Allah's punishment, if you are one of thetruthful.
29/30 He said: My Lord! help me against the mischievouspeople.
29/31 And when Our messengers came to Ibrahim with the goodnews, they said: Surely we are going to destroy the peopleof this town, for its people are unjust.
29/32 He said: Surely in it is Lut. They said: We know wellwho is in it; we shall certainly deliver him and hisfollowers, except his wife; she shall be of those who remainbehind.
29/33 And when Our messengers came to Lut he was grieved onaccount of them, and he felt powerless (to protect) them;and they said: Fear not, nor grieve; surely we will deliveryou and your followers, except your wife; she shall be ofthose who remain behind.
29/34 Surely We will cause to come down upon the people ofthis town a punishment from heaven, because theytransgressed.
29/35 And certainly We have left a clear sign of it for apeople who understand.
29/36 And to Madyan (We sent) their brother Shuaib, so hesaid: O my people! serve Allah and fear the latter day anddo not act corruptly in the land, making mischief.
29/37 But they rejected him, so a severe earthquake overtookthem, and they became motionless bodies in their abode.
29/38 And (We destroyed) Ad and Samood, and from theirdwellings (this) is apparent to you indeed; and the Shaitanmade their deeds fair-seeming to them, so he kept them backfrom the path, though they were endowed with intelligenceand skill,
29/39 And (We destroyed) Qaroun and Firon and Haman; andcertainly Musa came to them with clear arguments, but theybehaved haughtily in the land; yet they could not outstrip(Us).
29/40 So each We punished for his sin; of them was he on whomWe sent down a violent storm, and of them was he whom therumbling overtook, and of them was he whom We made to beswallowed up by the earth, and of them was he whom Wedrowned; and it did not beseem Allah that He should beunjust to them, but they were unjust to their own souls.
29/41 The parable of those who take guardians besides Allah isas the parable of the spider that makes for itself a house;and most surely the frailest of the houses is the spider'shouse did they but know.
29/42 Surely Allah knows whatever thing they call upon besidesHim; and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
29/43 And (as for) these examples, We set them forth for men,and none understand them but the learned.
29/44 Allah created the heavens and the earth with truth; mostsurely there is a sign in this for the believers.
29/45 Recite that which has been revealed to you of the Bookand keep up prayer; surely prayer keeps (one) away fromindecency and evil, and certainly the remembrance of Allahis the greatest, and Allah knows what you do.
29/46 And do not dispute with the followers of the Book exceptby what is best, except those of them who act unjustly, andsay: We believe in that which has been revealed to us andrevealed to you, and our Allah and your Allah is One, and to Himdo we submit.
29/47 And thus have We revealed the Book to you. So those whomWe have given the Book believe in it, and of these there arethose who believe in it, and none deny Our communicationsexcept the unbelievers.
29/48 And you did not recite before it any book, nor did youtranscribe one with your right hand, for then could thosewho say untrue things have doubted.
29/49 Nay! these are clear communications in the breasts ofthose who are granted knowledge; and none deny Ourcommunications except the unjust.
29/50 And they say: Why are not signs sent down upon him fromhis Lord? Say: The signs are only with Allah, and I am onlya plain warner.
29/51 Is it not enough for them that We have revealed to youthe Book which is recited to them? Most surely there ismercy in this and a reminder for a people who believe.
29/52 Say: Allah is sufficient as a witness between me andyou; He knows what is in the heavens and the earth. And (asfor) those who believe in the falsehood and disbelieve inAllah, these it is that are the losers.
29/53 And they ask you to hasten on the chastisement; and hadnot a term been appointed, the chastisement would certainlyhave come to them; and most certainly it will come to themall of a sudden while they will not perceive.
29/54 They ask you to hasten on the chastisement, and mostsurely hell encompasses the unbelievers;
29/55 On the day when the chastisement shall cover them fromabove them, and from beneath their feet; and He shall say:Taste what you did.
29/56 O My servants who believe! surely My earth is vast,therefore Me alone should you serve.
29/57 Every soul must taste of death, then to Us you shall bebrought back.
29/58 And (as for) those who believe and do good, We willcertainly give them abode in the high places in gardensbeneath which rivers flow, abiding therein; how good thereward of the workers:
29/59 Those who are patient, and on their Lord do they rely.
29/60 And how many a living creature that does not carry itssustenance: Allah sustains it and yourselves; and He is theHearing, the Knowing.
29/61 And if you ask them, Who created the heavens and theearth and made the sun and the moon subservient, they willcertainly say, Allah. Whence are they then turned away?
29/62 Allah makes abundant the means of subsistence for whomHe pleases of His servants, and straitens them for whom (Hepleases) surely Allah is Cognizant of all things.
29/63 And if you ask them Who is it that sends down water fromthe clouds, then gives life to the earth with it after itsdeath, they will certainly say, Allah. Say: All praise isdue to Allah. Nay, most of them do not understand.
29/64 And this life of the world is nothing but a sport and aplay; and as for the next abode, that most surely is thelife-- did they but know!
29/65 So when they ride in the ships they call upon Allah,being sincerely obedient to Him, but when He brings themsafe to the land, lo! they associate others (with Him);
29/66 Thus they become ungrateful for what We have given them,so that they may enjoy; but they shall soon know.
29/67 Do they not see that We have made a sacred territorysecure, while men are carried off by force from around them?Will they still believe in the falsehood and disbelieve inthe favour of Allah?
29/68 And who is more unjust than one who forges a lie againstAllah, or gives the lie to the truth when it has come tohim? Will not in hell be the abode of the unbelievers?
29/69 And (as for) those who strive hard for Us, We will mostcertainly guide them in Our ways; and Allah is most surelywith the doers of good.
