7/1 Alif Lam Mim Suad.
7/2 A Book revealed to you-- so let there be no straitness inyour breast on account of it-- that you may warn thereby, and areminder close to the believers.
7/3 Follow what has been revealed to you from your Lord anddo not follow guardians besides Him, how little do you mind.
7/4 And how many a town that We destroyed, so Our punishmentcame to it by night or while they slept at midday.
7/5 Yet their cry, when Our punishment came to them, wasnothing but that they said: Surely we were unjust.
7/6 Most certainly then We will question those to whom (themessengers) were sent, and most certainly We will also question themessengers;
7/7 Then most certainly We will relate to them with knowledge,and We were not absent.
7/8 And the measuring out on that day will be just; then as forhim whose measure (of good deeds) is heavy, those are they whoshall be successful;
7/9 And as for him whose measure (of good deeds) is lightthose are they who have made their souls suffer loss because theydisbelieved in Our communications.
7/10 And certainly We have established you in the earth andmade in it means of livelihood for you; little it is that you givethanks.
7/11 And certainly We created you, then We fashioned you,then We said to the angels: Prostrate to Adam. So theydid prostrate except Iblis; he was not of those who prostrated.
7/12 He said: What hindered you so that you did not prostratewhen I commanded you? He said: I am better than he:Thou hast created me of fire, while him Thou didst create ofdust.
7/13 He said: Then get forth from this (state), for it does notbefit you to behave proudly therein. Go forth, therefore, surelyyou are of the abject ones.
7/14 He said: Respite me until the day when they are raised up.
7/15 He said: Surely you are of the respited ones.
7/16 He said: As Thou hast caused me to remain disappointedI will certainly lie in wait for them in Thy straight path.
7/17 Then I will certainly come to them from before them andfrom behind them, and from their right-hand side and from theirleft-hand side; and Thou shalt not find most of them thankful.
7/18 He said: Get out of this (state), despised, driven away;whoever of them will follow you, I will certainly fill hell with youall.
7/19 And (We said): O Adam! Dwell you and your wife in thegarden; so eat from where you desire, but do not go near thistree, for then you will be of the unjust.
7/20 But the Shaitan made an evil suggestion to them that hemight make manifest to them what had been hidden from themof their evil inclinations, and he said: Your Lord has not forbiddenyou this tree except that you may not both become twoangels or that you may (not) become of the immortals.
7/21 And he swore to them both: Most surely I am a sincereadviser to you.
7/22 Then he caused them to fall by deceit; so when they tastedof the tree, their evil inclinations became manifest to them, andthey both began to cover themselves with the leaves of thegarden; and their Lord called out to them: Did I not forbid youboth from that tree and say to you that the Shaitan is your openenemy?
7/23 They said: Our Lord! We have been unjust to ourselves,and if Thou forgive us not, and have (not) mercy on us, we shallcertainly be of the losers.
7/24 He said: Get forth, some of you, the enemies of others,and there is for you in the earth an abode and a provision for atime.
7/25 He (also) said: Therein shall you live, and therein shallyou die, and from it shall you be raised.
7/26 O children of Adam! We have indeed sent down to youclothing to cover your shame, and (clothing) for beauty andclothing that guards (against evil), that is the best. This is of thecommunications of Allah that they may be mindful.
7/27 O children of Adam! let not the Shaitan cause you to fallinto affliction as he expelled your parents from the garden,pulling off from them both their clothing that he might showthem their evil inclinations, he surely sees you, he as well as hishost, from whence you cannot see them; surely We have madethe Shaitans to be the guardians of those who do not believe.
7/28 And when they commit an indecency they say: We foundour fathers doing this, and Allah has enjoined it on us. Say:Surely Allah does not enjoin indecency; do you say against Allahwhat you do not know?
7/29 Say: My Lord has enjoined justice, and set upright yourfaces at every time of prayer and call on Him, being sincere toHim in obedience; as He brought you forth in the beginning, soshall you also return.
7/30 A part has He guided aright and (as for another) part,error is justly their due, surely they took the Shaitans for guardiansbeside Allah, and they think that they are followers of the right
7/31 O children of Adam! attend to your embellishments atevery time of prayer, and eat and drink and be not extravagant;surely He does not love the extravagant.
7/32 Say: Who has prohibited the embellishment of Allah whichHe has brought forth for His servants and the good provisions?Say: These are for the believers in the life of this world, purely(theirs) on the resurrection day; thus do We make the communicationsclear for a people who know.
7/33 Say: My Lord has only prohibited indecencies, those ofthem that are apparent as well as those that are concealed, andsin and rebellion without justice, and that you associate withAllah that for which He has not sent down any authority, andthat you say against Allah what you do not know.
7/34 And for every nation there is a doom, so when their doomis come they shall not remain behind the least while, nor shallthey go before.
7/35 O children of Adam! if there come to you messengers fromamong you relating to you My communications, then whoevershall guard (against evil) and act aright-- they shall have no fearnor shall they grieve.
7/36 And (as for) those who reject Our communications andturn away from them haughtily-- these are the inmates of the firethey shall abide in it.
7/37 Who is then more unjust than he who forges a lie againstAllah or rejects His communications? (As for) those, their portionof the Book shall reach them, until when Our messengerscome to them causing them to die, they shall say: Where is thatwhich you used to call upon besides Allah? They would say:They are gone away from us; and they shall bear witness againstthemselves that they were unbelievers
7/38 He will say: Enter into fire among the nations that havepassed away before you from among jinn and men; whenever anation shall enter, it shall curse its sister, until when they have allcome up with one another into it; the last of them shall say withregard to the foremost of them: Our Lord! these led us astraytherefore give them a double chastisement of the fire. He willsay: Every one shall have double but you do not know.
7/39 And the foremost of them will say to the last of them: Soyou have no preference over us; therefore taste the chastisementfor what you earned.
7/40 Surely (as for) those who reject Our communications andturn away from them haughtily, the doors of heaven shall not beopened for them, nor shall they enter the garden until the camelpass through the eye of the needle; and thus do We reward theguilty.
7/41 They shall have a bed of hell-fire and from above themcoverings (of it); and thus do We reward the unjust.
7/42 And (as for) those who believe and do good We do notimpose on any soul a duty except to the extent of its ability--they are the dwellers of the garden; in it they shall abide.
7/43 And We will remove whatever of ill-feeling is in theirbreasts; the rivers shall flow beneath them and they shall say: Allpraise is due to Allah Who guided us to this, and we would nothave found the way had it not been that Allah had guided us;certainly the messengers of our Lord brought the truth; and it shallbe cried out to them that this is the garden of which you aremade heirs for what you did.
7/44 And the dwellers of the garden will call out to the inmatesof the fire: Surely we have found what our Lord promised us tobe true; have you too found what your Lord promised to betrue? They will say: Yes. Then a crier will cry out among themthat the curse of Allah is on the unjust.
7/45 Who hinder (people) from Allah's way and seek to make itcrooked, and they are disbelievers in the hereafter.
7/46 And between the two there shall be a veil, and on the mostelevated places there shall be men who know all by their marks,and they shall call out to the dwellers of the garden: Peace be onyou; they shall not have yet entered it, though they hope.
7/47 And when their eyes shall be turned towards the inmates ofthe fire, they shall say: Our Lord! place us not with the unjust
7/48 And the dwellers of the most elevated places shall ca!l outto men whom they will recognize by their marks saying: Of noavail were to you your amassings and your behaving haughtily:
7/49 Are these they about whom you swore that Allah will notbestow mercy on them? Enter the garden; you shall have no fear,nor shall you grieve.
7/50 And the inmates of the fire shall call out to the dwellers ofthe garden, saying: Pour on us some water or of that which Allahhas given you. They shall say: Surely Allah has prohibited themboth to the unbelievers.
7/51 Who take their religion for an idle sport and a play and thislife's world deceives them; so today We forsake them, as theyneglected the meeting of this day of theirs and as they denied Ourcommunications.
7/52 And certainly We have brought them a Book which Wehave made clear with knowledge, a guidance and a mercy for apeople who believe.
7/53 Do they wait for aught but its final sequel? On the day whenits final sequel comes about, those who neglected it before willsay: Indeed the messengers of our Lord brought the truth; are therefor us then any intercessors so that they should intercede on ourbehalf? Or could we be sent back so that we should do (deeds)other than those which we did? Indeed they have lost their soulsand that which they forged has gone away from them.
7/54 Surely your Lord is Allah, Who created the heavens andthe earth in six periods of time, and He is firm in power; Hethrows the veil of night over the day, which it pursuesincessantly; and (He created) the sun and the moon and the stars, madesubservient by His command; surely His is the creation and thecommand; blessed is Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
7/55 Call on your Lord humbly and secretly; surely He does notlove those who exceed the limits.
7/56 And do not make mischief in the earth after its reformation,and call on Him fearing and hoping; surely the mercy ofAllah is nigh to those who do good (to others).
7/57 And He it is Who sends forth the winds bearing good newsbefore His mercy, until, when they bring up a laden cloud, Wedrive it to a dead land, then We send down water on it, then bringforth with it of fruits of all kinds; thus shall We bring forth thedead that you may be mindful.
7/58 And as for the good land, its vegetation springs forth(abundantly) by the permission of its Lord, and (as for) that whichis inferior (its herbage) comes forth but scantily; thus do Werepeat the communications for a people who give thanks.
7/59 Certainly We sent Nuh to his people, so he said: O mypeople! serve Allah, you have no god other than Him; surely I fearfor you the chastisement of a grievous day.
7/60 The chiefs of his people said: Most surely we see you inclear error.
7/61 He said: O my people! there is no error in me, but I am anmessenger from the Lord of the worlds.
7/62 I deliver to you the messages of my Lord, and I offer yougood advice and I know from Allah what you do not know.
7/63 What! do you wonder that a reminder has come to youfrom your Lord through a man from among you, that he mightwarn you and that you might guard (against evil) and so thatmercy may be shown to you?
7/64 But they called him a liar, so We delivered him and thosewith him in the ark, and We drowned those who rejected Ourcommunications; surely they were a blind people.
7/65 And to Ad (We sent) their brother Hud. He said: O mypeople! serve Allah, you have no god other than Him; will you notthen guard (against evil)?
7/66 The chiefs of those who disbelieved from among his peoplesaid: Most surely we see you in folly, and most surely we think youto be of the liars.
7/67 He said: O my people! there is no folly in me, but I am anmessenger of the Lord of the worlds.
7/68 I deliver to you the messages of my Lord and I am a faithfuladviser to you:
7/69 What! do you wonder that a reminder has come to youfrom your Lord through a man from among you that he mightwarn you? And remember when He made you successors afterNuh's people and increased you in excellence in respect of make;therefore remember the benefits of Allah, that you may besuccessful.
7/70 They said: Have you come to us that we may serve Allahalone and give up what our fathers used to serve? Then bring to uswhat you threaten us with, if you are of the truthful ones.
7/71 He said: Indeed uncleanness and wrath from your Lordhave lighted upon you; what! do you dispute with me aboutnames which you and your fathers have given? Allah has not sentany authority for them; wait then, I too with you will be of thosewho wait.
7/72 So We delivered him and those with him by mercy from Us,and We cut off the last of those who rejected Our communicationsand were not believers.
7/73 And to Samood (We sent) their brother Salih. He said: Omy people! serve Allah, you have no god other than Him; clearproof indeed has come to you from your Lord; this is (as) Allah'sshe-camel for you-- a sign, therefore leave her alone to pasture onAllah's earth, and do not touch her with any harm, otherwisepainful chastisement will overtake you.
7/74 And remember when He made you successors after Ad andsettled you in the land-- you make mansions on its plains and hewout houses in the mountains-- remember therefore Allah's benefitsand do not act corruptly in the land, making mischief.
7/75 The chief of those who behaved proudly among his peoplesaid to those who were considered weak, to those who believedfrom among them: Do you know that Salih is sent by his Lord?They said: Surely we are believers in what he has been sent with
7/76 Those who were haughty said: Surely we are deniers ofwhat you believe in.
7/77 So they slew the she-camel and revolted against theirLord's commandment, and they said: O Salih! bring us what youthreatened us with, if you are one of the messengers.
7/78 Then the earthquake overtook them, so they becamemotionless bodies in their abode.
7/79 Then he turned away from them and said: O my people Idid certainly deliver to you the message of my Lord, and I gaveyou good advice, but you do not love those who give good advice.
7/80 And (We sent) Lut when he said to his people: What! doyou commit an indecency which any one in the world has not donebefore you?
7/81 Most surely you come to males in lust besides females; nayyou are an extravagant people.
7/82 And the answer of his people was no other than that theysaid: Turn them out of your town, surely they are a people whoseek to purify (themselves).
7/83 So We delivered him and his followers, except his wife; shewas of those who remained behind.
7/84 And We rained upon them a rain; consider then what wasthe end of the guilty.
7/85 And to Madyan (We sent) their brother Shu'aib. He said: Omy people! serve Allah, you have no god other than Him; clearproof indeed has come to you from your Lord, therefore give fullmeasure and weight and do not diminish to men their things, anddo not make mischief in the land after its reform; this is better foryou if you are believers:
7/86 And do not lie in wait in every path, threatening andturning away from Allah's way him who believes in Him andseeking to make it crooked; and remember when you were fewthen He multiplied you, and consider what was the end of themischief-makers.
7/87 And if there is a party of you who believe in that with whicham sent, and another party who do not believe, then wait patientlyuntil Allah judges between us; and He is the best of the Judges.
7/88 The chiefs, those who were proud from among his peoplesaid: We will most certainly turn you out, O Shu'aib, and (also;those who believe with you, from our town, or you shall comeback to our faith. He said: What! though we dislike (it)?
7/89 Indeed we shall have forged a lie against Allah If we goback to your religion after Allah has delivered us from It, and itbefits us not that we should go back to it, except if Allah ourLord please: Our Lord comprehends all things :n His knowledge;in Allah do we trust: Our Lord! decide between us and ourpeople with truth; and Thou art the best of deciders.
7/90 And the chiefs of those who disbelieved from among hispeople said: If you follow Shu'aib, you shall then most surely belosers
7/91 Then the earthquake overtook them, so they became motionlessbodies in their abode.
7/92 Those who called Shu'aib a liar were as though they hadnever dwelt therein; those who called Shu'aib a liar, they werethe losers.
7/93 So he turned away from them and said: O my people!certainly I delivered to you the messages of my Lord and I gaveyou good advice; how shall I then be sorry for an unbelievingpeople?
7/94 And We did not send a prophet in a town but We overtookits people with distress and affliction in order that theymight humble themselves.
7/95 Then We gave them good in the place of evil until theybecame many and said: Distress and happiness did indeed befallour fathers. Then We took them by surprise while they did notperceive.
7/96 And if the people of the towns had believed and guarded(against evil) We would certainly have opened up for themblessings from the heaven and the earth, but they rejected, so Weovertook them for what they had earned.
7/97 What! do the people of the towns then feel secure fromOur punishment coming to them by night while they sleep?
7/98 What! do the people of the towns feel secure from Ourpunishment coming to them in the morning while they play?
7/99 What! do they then feel secure from Allah's plan? Butnone feels secure from Allah's plan except the people who shallperish.
7/100 Is it not clear to those who inherit the earth after its(former) residents that if We please We would afflict them onaccount of their faults and set a seal on their hearts so theywould not hear.
7/101 These towns-- We relate to you some of their stories, andcertainly their messengers came to them with clear arguments, butthey would not believe in what they rejected at first; thus doesAllah set a seal over the hearts of the unbelievers
7/102 And We did not find in most of them any (faithfulnessto) covenant, and We found most of them to be certainly transgressors.
7/103 Then we raised after them Musa with Our communicationsto Firon and his chiefs, but they disbelieved in them;consider then what was the end of the mischief makers.
7/104 And Musa said: O Firon! surely I am a messenger from theLord of the worlds:
7/105 (I am) worthy of not saying anything about Allah exceptthe truth: I have come to you indeed with clear proof from yourLord, therefore send with me the children of Israel
7/106 He said: If you have come with a sign, then bring it, ifyou are of the truthful ones.
7/107 So he threw his rod, then lo! it was a clear serpent.
7/108 And he drew forth his hand, and lo! it was white to thebeholders.
7/109 The chiefs of Firon's people said: most surely this is anenchanter possessed of knowledge:
7/110 He intends to turn you out of your land. What counseldo you then give?
7/111 They said: Put him off and his brother, and send collectorsinto the cities:
7/112 That they may bring to you every enchanter possessed ofknowledge.
7/113 And the enchanters came to Firon (and) said: We mustsurely have a reward if we are the prevailing ones.
7/114 He said: Yes, and you shall certainly be of those who arenear (to me).
7/115 They said: O Musa! will you cast, or shall we be the firstto cast?
7/116 He said: Cast. So when they cast, they deceived thepeople's eyes and frightened them, and they produced a mightyenchantment.
7/117 And We revealed to Musa, saying: Cast your rod; thenlo! it devoured the lies they told.
7/118 So the truth was established, and what they did becamenull.
7/119 Thus they were vanquished there, and they went backabased.
7/120 And the enchanters were thrown down, prostrating (themselves).
7/121 They said: We believe in the Lord of the worlds,
7/122 The Lord of Musa and Haroun.
7/123 Firon said: Do you believe in Him before I have givenyou permission? Surely this is a plot which you have secretlydevised in this city, that you may turn out of it its people, butyou shall know:
7/124 I will certainly cut off your hands and your feet onopposite sides, then will I crucify you all together.
7/125 They said: Surely to our Lord shall we go back:
7/126 And you do not take revenge on us except because wehave believed in the communications of our Lord when theycame to us! Our Lord: Pour out upon us patience and cause usto die in submission.
7/127 And the chiefs of Firon's people said: Do you leaveMusa and his people to make mischief in the land and to forsakeyou and your gods? He said: We will slay their sons and sparetheir women, and surely we are masters over them.
7/128 Musa said to his people: Ask help from Allah and bepatient; surely the land is Allah's; He causes such of His servantsto inherit it as He pleases, and the end is for those who guard(against evil).
7/129 They said: We have been persecuted before you came tous and since you have come to us. He said: It may be that yourLord will destroy your enemy and make you rulers in the land,then He will see how you act.
7/130 And certainly We overtook Firon's people with droughtsand diminution of fruits that they may be mindful.
7/131 But when good befell them they said: This is due to us;and when evil afflicted them, they attributed it to the ill-luck ofMusa and those with him; surely their evil fortune is only fromAllah but most of them do not know.
7/132 And they said: Whatever sign you may bring to us tocharm us with it-- we will not believe in you.
7/133 Therefore We sent upon them widespread death, and thelocusts and the lice and the frog and the blood, clear signs; butthey behaved haughtily and they were a guilty people.
7/134 And when the plague fell upon them, they said: O Musa!pray for us to your Lord as He has promised with you, if youremove the plague from us, we will certainly believe in you andwe will certainly send away with you the children of Israel.
7/135 But when We removed the plague from them till a termwhich they should attain lo! they broke (the promise).
7/136 Therefore We inflicted retribution on them and drownedthem in the sea because they rejected Our signs and were heedlessof them.
7/137 And We made the people who were deemed weak tomhent the eastern lands and the western ones which We hadblessed; and the good word of your Lord was fulfilled in thechildren of Israel because they bore up (sufferings) patiently; andWe utterly destroyed what Firon and his people had wroughtand what they built.
7/138 And We made the children of Israel to pass the sea; thenthey came upon a people who kept to the worship of their idolsThey said: O Musa! make for us a god as they have (their) godsHe said: Surely you are a people acting ignorantly:
7/139 (As to) these, surely that about which they are shall bebrought to naught and that which they do is vain.
7/140 He said: What! shall I seek for you a god other thanAllah while He has made you excel (all) created things?
7/141 And when We delivered you from Firon's people whosubJected you to severe torment, killing your sons and sparingyour women, and in this there was a great trial from your Lord.
7/142 And We appointed with Musa a time of thirty nights andcompleted them with ten (more), so the appointed time of hisLord was complete forty nights, and Musa said to his brotherHaroun: Take my place among my people, and act well and donot follow the way of the mischief-makers.
7/143 And when Musa came at Our appointed time and hisLord spoke to him, he said: My Lord! show me (Thyself), so thatI may look upon Thee. He said: You cannot (bear to) see Mebut look at the mountain, if it remains firm in its place, then willyou see Me; but when his Lord manifested His glory to themountain He made it crumble and Musa fell down in a swoon;then when he recovered, he said: Glory be to Thee, I turn toThee, and I am the first of the believers.
7/144 He said: O Musa! surely I have chosen you above thepeople with My messages and with My words, therefore takehold of what I give to you and be of the grateful ones.
7/145 And We ordained for him in the tablets admonition ofevery kind and clear explanation of all things; so take hold ofthem with firmness and enjoin your people to take hold of whatis best thereof; I will show you the abode of the transgressors.
7/146 I will turn away from My communications those who areunjustly proud in the earth; and if they see every sign they willnot believe in It; and if they see the way of rectitude they do nottake It for a way, and if they see the way of error. they take it fora way; this is because they rejected Our communications andwere heedless of them.
7/147 And (as to) those who reject Our communications andthe meeting of the hereafter, their deeds are null. Shall they berewarded except for what they have done?
7/148 And Musa's people made of their ornaments a calf afterhim, a (mere) body, which gave a mooing sound. What! couldthey not see that it did not speak to them nor guide them m theway? They took it (for worship) and they were unjust.
7/149 And when they repented and saw that they had goneastray, they said: If our Lord show not mercy to us and forgiveus we shall certainly be of the losers.
7/150 And when Musa returned to his people, wrathful (and)in violent grief, he said: Evil is it that you have done after me; didyou turn away from the bidding of your Lord? And he threwdown the tablets and seized his brother by the head, dragginghim towards him. He said: Son of my mother! surely the peoplereckoned me weak and had well-nigh slain me, therefore makenot the enemies to rejoice over me and count me not among theunjust people.
7/151 He said: My Lord! forgive me and my brother and causeus to enter into Thy mercy, and Thou art the most Merciful ofthe merciful ones.
7/152 (As for) those who took the calf (for a god), surely wrathfrom their Lord and disgrace in this world's life shall overtakethem, and thus do We recompense the devisers of lies.
7/153 And (as to) those who do evil deeds, then repent afterthat and believe, your Lord after that is most surely Forgiving,Merciful.
7/154 And when Musa's anger calmed down he took up thetablets, and in the writing thereof was guidance and mercy forthose who fear for the sake of their Lord.
7/155 And Musa chose out of his people seventy men for Ourappointment; so when the earthquake overtook them, he said:My Lord! if Thou hadst pleased, Thou hadst destroyed thembefore and myself (too); wilt Thou destroy us for what the foolsamong us have done? It is naught but Thy trial, Thou makest errwith it whom Thou pleasest and guidest whom Thou pleasest:Thou art our Guardian, therefore forgive us and have mercy onus, and Thou art the best of the forgivers.
7/156 And ordain for us good in this world's life and m thehereafter, for surely we turn to Thee. He said: (As for) Mychastisement, I will afflict with it whom I please, and My mercyencompasses all things; so I will ordain it (specially) for thosewho guard (against evil) and pay the poor-rate, and those whobelieve in Our communications.
7/157 Those who follow the Messenger-Prophet, the Ummi, whomthey find written down with them in the Taurat and the Injeel(who) enjoins them good and forbids them evil, and makeslawful to them the good things and makes unlawful to themimpure things, and removes from them their burden and theshackles which were upon them; so (as for) those who believe inhim and honor him and help him, and follow the light which hasbeen sent down with him, these it is that are the successful.
7/158 Say: O people! surely I am the Messenger of Allah to youall, of Him Whose is the kingdom of the heavens and the earththere is no god but He; He brings to life and causes to dietherefore believe in Allah and His messenger, the Ummi Prophetwho believes in Allah and His words, and follow him so that youmay walk in the right way.
7/159 And of Musa's people was a party who guided (people)with the truth, and thereby did they do justice.
7/160 And We divided them into twelve tribes, as nations; andWe revealed to Musa when his people asked him for water:Strike the rock with your staff, so outnowed from it twelvesprings; each tribe knew its drinking place; and We made theclouds to give shade over them and We sent to them manna andquails: Eat of the good things We have given you. And they didnot do Us any harm, but they did injustice to their own souls.
7/161 And when it was said to them: Reside in this town andeat from it wherever you wish, and say, Put down from us ourheavy burdens: and enter the gate making obeisance, We willforgive you your wrongs: We will give more to those who dogood (to others).
7/162 But those who were unjust among them changed it for asaying other than that which had been spoken to them; so Wesent upon them a pestilence from heaven because they wereunjust.
7/163 And ask them about the town which stood by the sea;when they exceeded the limits of the Sabbath, when their fishcame to them on the day of their Sabbath, appearing on thesurface of the water, and on the day on which they did not keepthe Sabbath they did not come to them; thus did We try thembecause they transgressed.
7/164 And when a party of them said: Why do you admonish awith a severe chastisement? They said: To be free from blamebefore your Lord, and that haply they may guard (against evil).
7/165 So when they neglected what they had been reminded of,We delivered those who forbade evil and We overtook thosewho were unjust with an evil chastisement because they transgressed.
7/166 Therefore when they revoltingly persisted in what theyhad been forbidden, We said to them: Be (as) apes, despised andhated.
7/167 And when your Lord announced that He would certainlysend against them to the day of resurrection those who wouldsubject them to severe torment; most surely your Lord is quickto requite (evil) and most surely He is Forgiving, Merciful.
7/168 And We cut them up on the earth into parties, (some) ofthem being righteous and (others) of them falling short of that,and We tried them with blessings and misfortunes that theymight turn.
7/169 Then there came after them an evil posterity who inheritedthe Book, taking only the frail good of this low life andsaying: It will be forgiven us. And if the like good came to them,they would take it (too). Was not a promise taken from them inthe Book that they would not speak anything about Allah butthe truth, and they have read what is in it; and the abode of thehereafter is better for those who guard (against evil). Do you notthen understand?
7/170 And (as for) those who hold fast by the Book and keepup prayer, surely We do not waste the reward of the right doers.
7/171 And when We shook the mountain over them as if itwere a covering overhead, and they thought that it was going tofall down upon them: Take hold of what We have given you withfirmness, and be mindful of what is in it, so that you may guard(against evil).
7/172 And when your Lord brought forth from the children ofAdam, from their backs, their descendants, and made them bearwitness against their own souls: Am I not your Lord? They said:Yes! we bear witness. Lest you should say on the day of resurrection:Surely we were heedless of this.
7/173 Or you should say: Only our fathers associated others(with Allah) before, and we were an offspring after them: WiltThou then destroy us for what the vain doers did?
7/174 And thus do We make clear the communications, andthat haply they might return.
7/175 And recite to them the narrative of him to whom We giveOur communications, but he withdraws himself from them, sothe Shaitan overtakes him, so he is of those who go astray.
7/176 And if We had pleased, We would certainly have exaltedhim thereby; but he clung to the earth and followed his lowdesire, so his parable is as the parable of the dog; if you attackhim he lolls out his tongue; and if you leave him alone he lollsout his tongue; this is the parable of the people who reject Ourcommunications; therefore relate the narrative that they mayreflect.
7/177 Evil is the likeness of the people who reject Our communicationsand are unjust to their own souls.
7/178 Whomsoever Allah guides, he is the one who follows theright way; and whomsoever He causes to err, these are the losers.
7/179 And certainly We have created for hell many of the jinnand the men; they have hearts with which they do not understand,and they have eyes with which they do not see, and theyhave ears with which they do not hear; they are as cattle, nay,they are in worse errors; these are the heedless ones.
7/180 And Allah's are the best names, therefore call on Himthereby, and leave alone those who violate the sanctity of Hisnames; they shall be recompensed for what they did.
7/181 And of those whom We have created are a people whoguide with the truth and thereby they do justice.
7/182 And (as to) those who reject Our communications, Wedraw them near (to destruction) by degrees from whence theyknow not.
7/183 And I grant them respite; surely My scheme is effective.
7/184 Do they not reflect that their companion has not unsoundnessin mind; he is only a plain warner.
7/185 Do they not consider the kingdom of the heavens and theearth and whatever things Allah has created, and that may betheir doom shall have drawn nigh; what announcement wouldthey then believe in after this?
7/186 Whomsoever Allah causes to err, there is no guide forhim; and He leaves them alone in their inordinacy, blindlywandering on.
7/187 They ask you about the hour, when will be its takingplace? Say: The knowledge of it is only with my Lord; none butHe shall manifest it at its time; it will be momentous in theheavens and the earth; it will not come on you but of a sudden.They ask you as if you were solicitous about it. Say: Its knowledgeis only with Allah, but most people do not know.
7/188 Say: I do not control any benefit or harm for my ownsoul except as Allah please; and had I known the unseen I wouldhave had much of good and no evil would have touched me; Iam nothing but a warner and the giver of good news to a peoplewho believe.
7/189 He it is Who created you from a single being, and of thesame (kind) did He make his mate, that he might incline to her;so when he covers her she bears a light burden, then moves about withit; but when it grows heavy, they both call uponAllah, their Lord: If Thou givest us a good one, we shall certainlybe of the grateful ones.
7/190 But when He gives them a good one, thcy set up withHim associates in what He has given them; but high is Allahabove what they associate (with Him).
7/191 What! they associate (with Him) that which does notcreate any thing, while they are themselves created!
7/192 And they have no power to give them help, nor can theyhelp themselves.
7/193 And if you invite them to guidance, they will not followyou; it is the same to you whether you invite them or you aresilent.
7/194 Surely those whom you call on besides Allah are in astate of subjugation like yourselves; therefore call on them, thenlet them answer you if you are truthful.
7/195 Have they feet with which they walk, or have they handswith which they hold, or have they eyes with which they see, orhave they ears with which they hear? Say: Call your associates,then make a struggle (to prevail) against me and give me norespite.
7/196 Surely my guardian is Allah, Who revealed the Book,and He befriends the good.
7/197 And those whom you call upon besides Him are not ableto help you, nor can they help themselves.
7/198 And if you invite them to guidance, they do not hear;and you see them looking towards you, yet they do not see.
7/199 Take to forgiveness and enjoin good and turn aside fromthe ignorant.
7/200 And if a false imputation from the Shaitan afflict you,seek refuge in Allah; surely He is Hearing, Knowing.
7/201 Surely those who guard (against evil), when a visitationfrom the Shaitan afflicts them they become mindful, then lo!they see.
7/202 And their brethren increase them in error, then theycease not.
7/203 And when you bring them not a revelation they say: Whydo you not forge it? Say: I only follow what is revealed to mefrom my Lord; these are clear proofs from your Lord and aguidance and a mercy for a people who believe.
7/204 And when the Quran is recited, then listen to it andremain silent, that mercy may be shown to you.
7/205 And remember your Lord within yourself humbly andfearing and in a voice not loud in the morning and the eveningand be not of the heedless ones.
7/206 Surely those who are with your Lord are not too proudto serve Him, and they declare His glory and prostratein humility before Him.
