45/1 Ha Mim.
45/2 The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the Mighty, theWise.
45/3 Most surely in the heavens and the earth there are signsfor the believers.
45/4 And in your (own) creation and in what He spreads abroadof animals there are signs for a people that are sure;
45/5 And (in) the variation of the night and the day, and (in)what Allah sends down of sustenance from the cloud, thengives life thereby to the earth after its death, and (in)the changing of the winds, there are signs for a people whounderstand.
45/6 These are the communications of Allah which We recite toyou with truth; then in what announcement would they believeafter Allah and His communications?
45/7 Woe to every sinful liar,
45/8 Who hears the communications of Allah recited to him,then persists proudly as though he had not heard them; soannounce to him a painful punishment.
45/9 And when he comes to know of any of Our communications,he takes it for a jest; these it is that shall have abasingchastisement.
45/10 Before them is hell, and there shall not avail themaught of what they earned, nor those whom they took forguardians besides Allah, and they shall have a grievouspunishment.
45/11 This is guidance; and (as for) those who disbelieve inthe communications of their Lord, they shall have a painfulpunishment on account of uncleanness.
45/12 Allah is He Who made subservient to you the sea that theships may run therein by His command, and that you may seekof His grace, and that you may give thanks.
45/13 And He has made subservient to you whatsoever is in theheavens and whatsoever is in the earth, all, from Himself;most surely there are signs in this for a people whoreflect.
45/14 Say to those who believe (that) they forgive those whodo not fear the days of Allah that He may reward a peoplefor what they earn.
45/15 Whoever does good, it is for his own soul, and whoeverdoes evil, it is against himself; then you shall be broughtback to your-- Lord.
45/16 And certainly We gave the Book and the wisdom and theprophecy to the children of Israel, and We gave them of thegoodly things, and We made them excel the nations.
45/17 And We gave them clear arguments in the affair, but theydid not differ until after knowledge had come to them out ofenvy among themselves; surely your -Lord will judge betweenthem on the day of resurrection concerning that wherein theydiffered.
45/18 Then We have made you follow a course in the affair,therefore follow it, and do not follow the low desires ofthose who do not know.
45/19 Surely they shall not avail you in the least againstAllah; and surely the unjust are friends of each other, andAllah is the guardian of those who guard (against evil).
45/20 These are clear proofs for men, and a guidance and amercy for a people who are sure.
45/21 Nay! do those who have wrought evil deeds think that Wewill make them like those who believe and do good-- that theirlife and their death shall be equal? Evil it is that theyjudge.
45/22 And Allah created the heavens and the earth with truthand that every soul may be rewarded for what it has earnedand they shall not be wronged.
45/23 Have you then considered him who takes his low desirefor his god, and Allah has made him err having knowledge andhas set a seal upon his ear and his heart and put a coveringupon his eye. Who can then guide him after Allah? Will younot then be mindful?
45/24 And they say: There is nothing but our life in thisworld; we live and die and nothing destroys us but time, andthey have no knowledge of that; they only conjecture.
45/25 And when Our clear communications are recited to them,their argument is no other than that they say: Bring ourfathers (back) if you are truthful.
45/26 Say: Allah gives you life, then He makes you die, thenwill He gather you to the day of resurrection wherein is nodoubt, but most people do not know.
45/27 And Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth;and on the day when the hour shall come to pass, on that dayshall they perish who say false things.
45/28 And you shall see every nation kneeling down; everynation shall be called to its book: today you shall berewarded for what you did.
45/29 This is Our book that speaks against you with justice;surely We wrote what you did,
45/30 Then as to those who believed and did good, their Lordwill make them enter into His mercy; that is the manifestachievement.
45/31 As to those who disbelieved: What! were not Mycommunications recited to you? But you were proud and youwere a guilty people.
45/32 And when it was said, Surely the promise of Allah istrue and as for the hour, there is no doubt about it, yousaid: We do not know what the hour is; we do not think (thatit will come to pass) save a passing thought, and we are notat all sure.
45/33 And the evil (consequences) of what they did shallbecome manifest to them and that which they mocked shallencompass them.
45/34 And it shall be said: Today We forsake you as youneglected the meeting of this day of yours and your abode isthe fire, and there are not for you any helpers:
45/35 That is because you took the communications of Allah fora jest and the life of this world deceived you. So on thatday they shall not be brought forth from it, nor shall theybe granted goodwill.
45/36 Therefore to Allah is due (all) praise, the Lord of theheavens and the Lord of the earth, the Lord of the worlds.
45/37 And to Him belongs greatness in the heavens and theearth, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
