8/1 They ask you about the windfalls. Say: The windfalls arefor Allah and the Messenger. So be careful of (your duty to) Allahand set aright matters of your difference, and obey Allah andHis Messenger if you are believers.
8/2 Those only are believers whose hearts become full of fearwhen Allah is mentioned, and when His communications arerecited to them they increase them in faith, and in their Lord dothey trust.
8/3 Those who keep up prayer and spend (benevolently) out ofwhat We have given them.
8/4 These are the believers in truth; they shall have from theirLord exalted grades and forgiveness and an honorable sustenance.
8/5 Even as your Lord caused you to go forth from your housewith the truth, though a party of the believers were surelyaverse;
8/6 They disputed with you about the truth after it had becomeclear, (and they went forth) as if they were being driven to deathwhile they saw (it).
8/7 And when Allah promised you one of the two parties that itshall be yours and you loved that the one not armed should heyours and Allah desired to manifest the truth of what was trueby His words and to cut off the root of the unbelievers.
8/8 That He may manifest the truth of what was true and showthe falsehood of what was false, though the guilty disliked.
8/9 When you sought aid from your Lord, so He answeredyou: I will assist you with a thousand of the angels following oneanother.
8/10 And Allah only gave it as a good news and that yourhearts might be at ease thereby; and victory is only from Allah;surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/11 When He caused calm to fall on you as a security fromHim and sent down upon you water from the cloud that Hemight thereby purify you, and take away from you the uncleannessof the Shaitan, and that He might fortify your hearts andsteady (your) footsteps thereby.
8/12 When your Lord revealed to the angels: I am with you,therefore make firm those who believe. I will cast terror into thehearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their headsand strike off every fingertip of them.
8/13 This is because they acted adversely to Allah and HisMessenger; and whoever acts adversely to Allah and His Messenger--then surely Allah is severe in requiting (evil).
8/14 This-- taste it, and (know) that for the unbelievers is thechastisement of fire.
8/15 O you who believe! when you meet those who disbelievemarching for war, then turn not your backs to them.
8/16 And whoever shall turn his back to them on that day--unless he turn aside for the sake of fighting or withdraws to acompany-- then he, indeed, becomes deserving of Allah's wrath,and his abode is hell; and an evil destination shall it be.
8/17 So you did not slay them, but it was Allah Who slewthem, and you did not smite when you smote (the enemy), but itwas Allah Who smote, and that He might confer upon thebelievers a good gift from Himself; surely Allah is Hearing,Knowing.
8/18 This, and that Allah is the weakener of the struggle of theunbelievers.
8/19 If you demanded a judgment, the judgment has thenindeed come to you; and if you desist, it will be better for you;and if you turn back (to fight), We (too) shall turn back, andyour forces shall avail you nothing, though they may be many,and (know) that Allah is with the believers.
8/20 O you who believe! obey Allah and His Messenger and donot turn back from Him while you hear.
8/21 And be not like those who said, We hear, and they did notobey.
8/22 Surely the vilest of animals, in Allah's sight, are the deaf,the dumb, who do not understand.
8/23 And if Allah had known any good in them He would havemade them hear, and if He makes them hear they would turnback while they withdraw.
8/24 O you who believe! answer (the call of) Allah and HisMessenger when he calls you to that which gives you life; and knowthat Allah intervenes between man and his heart, and that toHim you shall be gathered.
8/25 And fear an affliction which may not smite those of you inparticular who are unjust; and know that Allah is severe inrequiting (evil).
8/26 And remember when you were few, deemed weak in theland, fearing lest people might carry you off by force, but Hesheltered you and strengthened you with His aid and gave you ofthe good things that you may give thanks.
8/27 O you who believe! be not unfaithful to Allah and theMessenger, nor be unfaithful to your trusts while you know.
8/28 And know that your property and your children are atemptation, and that Allah is He with Whom there is a mightyreward.
8/29 O you who believe! If you are careful of (your duty to)Allah, He will grant you a distinction and do away with yourevils and forgive you; and Allah is the Lord of mighty grace.
8/30 And when those who disbelieved devised plans againstyou that they might confine you or slay you or drive you away;and they devised plans and Allah too had arranged a plan; andAllah is the best of planners.
8/31 And when Our communications are recited to them, theysay: We have heard indeed; if we pleased we could say the like ofit; this is nothing but the stories of the ancients.
8/32 And when they said: O Allah! if this is the truth fromThee, then rain upon us stones from heaven or inflict on us apainful punishment.
8/33 But Allah was not going to chastise them while you wereamong them, nor is Allah going to chastise them while yet theyask for forgiveness.
8/34 And what (excuse) have they that Allah should not chastisethem while they hinder (men) from the Sacred Mosque andthey are not (fit to be) guardians of it; its guardians are onlythose who guard (against evil), but most of them do not know.
8/35 And their prayer before the House is nothing but whistlingand clapping of hands; taste then the chastisement, for youdisbelieved.
8/36 Surely those who disbelieve spend their wealth to hinder(people) from the way of Allah; so they shall spend it, then itshall be to them an intense regret, then they shall be overcome;and those who disbelieve shall be driven together to hell.
8/37 That Allah might separate the impure from the good, andput the impure, some of it upon the other, and pile it uptogether, then cast it into hell; these it is that are the losers.
8/38 Say to those who disbelieve, if they desist, that which ispast shall be forgiven to them; and if they return, then whathappened to the ancients has already passed.
8/39 And fight with them until there is no more persecutionand religion should be only for Allah; but if they desist, thensurely Allah sees what they do.
8/40 And if they turn back, then know that Allah is yourPatron; most excellent is the Patron and most excellent theHelper.
8/41 And know that whatever thing you gain, a fifth of itis for Allah and for the Messenger and for the near of kin andthe orphans and the needy and the wayfarer, if you believe inAllah and in that which We revealed to Our servant, on the dayof distinction, the day on which the two parties met; and Allahhas power over all things.
8/42 When you were on the nearer side (of the valley) and theywere on the farthest side, while the caravan was in a lower placethan you; and if you had mutually made an appointment, youwould certainly have broken away from the appointment, but--in order that Allah might bring about a matter which was to bedone, that he who would perish might perish by clear proof, andhe who would live might live by clear proof; and most surelyAllah is Hearing, Knowing;
8/43 When Allah showed them to you in your dream as few;and if He had shown them to you as many you would certainlyhave become weak-hearted and you would have disputed aboutthe matter, but Allah saved (you); surely He is the Knower ofwhat is in the breasts.
8/44 And when He showed them to you, when you met, as fewin your eyes and He made you to appear little in their eyes, inorder that Allah might bring about a matter which was to bedone, and to Allah are all affairs returned.
8/45 O you who believe! when you meet a party, then be firm,and remember Allah much, that you may be successful.
8/46 And obey Allah and His Messenger and do not quarrel forthen you will be weak in hearts and your power will depart, andbe patient; surely Allah is with the patient.
8/47 And be not like those who came forth from their homes ingreat exultation and to be seen of men, and (who) turn awayfrom the way of Allah, and Allah comprehends what they do.
8/48 And when the Shaitan made their works fair seeming tothem, and said: No one can overcome you this day, and surely Iam your protector: but when the two parties came in sight ofeach other he turned upon his heels, and said: Surely I am clearof you, surely I see what you do not see, surely I fear Allah; andAllah is severe in requiting (evil).
8/49 When the hypocrites and those in whose hearts was diseasesaid: Their religion has deceived them; and whoever trustsin Allah, then surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/50 And had you seen when the angels will cause to die thosewho disbelieve, smiting their faces and their backs, and (saying):Taste the punishment of burning.
8/51 This is for what your own hands have sent on before, andbecause Allah is not in the least unjust to the servants;
8/52 In the manner of the people of Firon and those beforethem; they disbelieved in Allah's communications, therefore Allahdestroyed them on account of their faults; surely Allah is strong,severe in requiting (evil).
8/53 This is because Allah has never changed a favor which Hehas conferred upon a people until they change their own condition;and because Allah is Hearing, Knowing;
8/54 In the manner of the people of Firon and those beforethem; they rejected the communications of their Lord, thereforeWe destroyed them on account of their faults and We drownedFiron's people, and they were all unjust.
8/55 Surely the vilest of animals in Allah's sight are those whodisbelieve, then they would not believe.
8/56 Those with whom you make an agreement, then theybreak their agreement every time and they do not guard (againstpunishment).
8/57 Therefore if you overtake them in fighting, then scatter by(making an example of) them those who are in their rear, thatthey may be mindful.
8/58 And if you fear treachery on the part of a people, thenthrow back to them on terms of equality; surely Allah does notlove the treacherous.
8/59 And let not those who disbelieve think that they shallcome in first; surely they will not escape.
8/60 And prepare against them what force you can and horsestied at the frontier, to frighten thereby the enemy of Allah andyour enemy and others besides them, whom you do not know(but) Allah knows them; and whatever thing you will spend inAllah's way, it will be paid back to you fully and you shall not bedealt with unjustly.
8/61 And if they incline to peace, then incline to it and trust inAllah; surely He is the Hearing, the Knowing.
8/62 And if they intend to deceive you-- then surely Allah issufficient for you; He it is Who strengthened you with His helpand with the believers
8/63 And united their hearts; had you spent all that is in theearth, you could not have united their hearts, but Allah unitedthem; surely He is Mighty, Wise.
8/64 O Prophet! Allah is sufficient for you and (for) such of thebelievers as follow you.
8/65 O Prophet! urge the believers to war; if there are twentypatient ones of you they shall overcome two hundred, and ifthere are a hundred of you they shall overcome a thousand ofthose who disbelieve, because they are a people who do notunderstand.
8/66 For the present Allah has made light your burden, and Heknows that there is weakness in you; so if there are a hundredpatient ones of you they shall overcome two hundred, and ifthere are a thousand they shall overcome two thousand byAllah's permission, and Allah is with the patient.
8/67 It is not fit for a prophet that he should take captivesunless he has fought and triumphed in the land; you desire thefrail goods of this world, while Allah desires (for you) thehereafter; and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/68 Were it not for an ordinance from Allah that had alreadygone forth, surely there would have befallen you a great chastisementfor what you had taken to.
8/69 Eat then of the lawful and good (things) which you haveacquired in war, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah; surelyAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
8/70 O Prophet! say to those of the captives who are in yourhands: If Allah knows anything good in your hearts, He will giveto you better than that which has been taken away from you andwill forgive you, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
8/71 And if they intend to act unfaithfully towards you, soindeed they acted unfaithfully towards Allah before, but He gave(you) mastery over them; and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
8/72 Surely those who believed and fled (their homes) andstruggled hard in Allah's way with their property and their souls,and those who gave shelter and helped-- these are guardians ofeach other; and (as for) those who believed and did not fly, notyours is their guardianship until they fly; and if they seek aidfrom you in the matter of religion, aid is incumbent on youexcept against a people between whom and you there is a treaty,and Allah sees what you do.
8/73 And (as for) those who disbelieve, some of them are theguardians of others; if you will not do it, there will be in the landpersecution and great mischief.
8/74 And (as for) those who believed and fled and struggledhard in Allah's way, and those who gave shelter and helped,these are the believers truly; they shall have forgiveness andhonorable provision.
8/75 And (as for) those who believed afterwards and fled andstruggled hard along with you, they are of you; and the possessorsof relationships are nearer to each other in the ordinance ofAllah; surely Allah knows all things.
