35/1 All praise is due to Allah, the Originator of the heavensand the earth, the Maker of the angels, messengers flying onwings, two, and three, and four; He increases in creationwhat He pleases; surely Allah has power over all things.
35/2 Whatever Allah grants to men of (His) mercy, there isnone to withhold it, and what He withholds there is none tosend it forth after that, and He is the Mighty, the Wise
35/3 O men! call to mind the favor of Allah on you; is thereany creator besides Allah who gives you sustenance from theheaven and the earth? There is no god but He; whence are youthen turned away?
35/4 And if they call you a liar, truly messengers before youwere called liars, and to Allah are all affairs returned.
35/5 O men! surely the promise of Allah is true, therefore letnot the life of this world deceive you, and let not thearchdeceiver deceive you respecting Allah.
35/6 Surely the Shaitan is your enemy, so take him for anenemy; he only invites his party that they may be inmates ofthe burning
35/7 (As for) those who disbelieve, they shall have a severepunishment, and (as for) those who believe and do good, theyshall have forgiveness and a great reward.
35/8 What! is he whose evil deed is made fairseeming to him somuch so that he considers it good? Now surely Allah makeserr whom He pleases and guides aright whom He pleases, solet not your soul waste away in grief for them; surely Allahis Cognizant of what they do
35/9 And Allah is He Who sends the winds so they raise acloud, then We drive it on to a dead country, and therewithWe give life to the earth after its death; even so is thequickening.
35/10 Whoever desires honor, then to Allah belongs the honorwholly. To Him do ascend the good words; and the good deeds,lift them up, and (as for) those who plan evil deeds, theyshall have a severe chastisement; and (as for) their plan,it shall perish.
35/11 And Allah created you of dust, then of the life-germ,then He made you pairs; and no female bears, nor does shebring forth, except with His knowledge; and no one whoselife is lengthened has his life lengthened, nor is aughtdiminished of one's life, but it is all in a book; surelythis is easy to Allah.
35/12 And the two seas are not alike: the one sweet, thatsubdues thirst by its excessive sweetness, pleasant todrink; and the other salt, that burns by its saltness; yetfrom each of them you eat fresh flesh and bring forthornaments which you wear; and you see the ships cleavethrough it that you may seek of His bounty and that you maybe grateful.
35/13 He causes the night to enter in upon the day, and Hecauses the day to enter in upon the night, and He has madesubservient (to you) the sun and the moon; each one followsits course to an appointed time; this is Allah, your Lord,His is the kingdom; and those whom you call upon besides Himdo not control a straw.
35/14 If you call on them they shall not hear your call, andeven if they could hear they shall not answer you; and onthe resurrection day they will deny your associating them(with Allah); and none can inform you like the One Who isAware.
35/15 O men! you are they who stand in need of Allah, andAllah is He Who is the Self-sufficient, the Praised One.
35/16 If He please, He will take you off and bring a newgeneration.
35/17 And this is not hard to Allah.
35/18 And a burdened soul cannot bear the burden of anotherand if one weighed down by burden should cry for (another tocarry) its burden, not aught of it shall be carried, eventhough he be near of kin. You warn only those who fear theirLord in secret and keep up prayer; and whoever purifieshimself, he purifies himself only for (the good of) his ownsoul; and to Allah is the eventual coming.
35/19 And the blind and the seeing are not alike
35/20 Nor the darkness and the light,
35/21 Nor the shade and the heat,
35/22 Neither are the living and the dead alike. Surely Allahmakes whom He pleases hear, and you cannot make those hearwho are m the graves.
35/23 You are naught but a warner.
35/24 Surely We have sent you with the truth as a bearer ofgood news and a warner; and there is not a people but awarner has gone among them.
35/25 And if they call you a liar, so did those before themindeed call (their messengers) liars; their messengers had cometo them with clear arguments, and with scriptures, and withthe illuminating book.
35/26 Then did I punish those who disbelieved, so how was themanifestation of My disapproval?
35/27 Do you not see that Allah sends down water from thecloud, then We bring forth therewith fruits of variouscolors; and in the mountains are streaks, white and red, ofvarious hues and (others) intensely black?
35/28 And of men and beasts and cattle are various species ofit likewise; those of His servants only who are possessed ofknowledge fear Allah; surely Allah is Mighty, Forgiving.
35/29 Surely they who recite the Book of Allah and keep upprayer and spend out of what We have given them secretly andopenly, hope for a gain which will not perish.
35/30 That He may pay them back fully their rewards and givethem more out of His grace: surely He is Forgiving,Multiplier of rewards.
35/31 And that which We have revealed to you of the Book, thatis the truth verifying that which is before it; most surelywith respect to His servants Allah is Aware, Seeing.
35/32 Then We gave the Book for an inheritance to those whomWe chose from among Our servants; but of them is he whomakes his soul to suffer a loss, and of them is he who takesa middle course, and of them is he who is foremost in deedsof goodness by Allah's permission; this is the greatexcellence.
35/33 Gardens of perpetuity, they shall enter therein; theyshad be made to wear therein bracelets of gold and pearls,and their dress therein shall be silk.
35/34 And they shall say: (All) praise is due to Allah, Whohas made grief to depart from us; most surely our Lord isForgiving, Multiplier of rewards,
35/35 Who has made us alight in a house abiding for ever outof . His grace; toil shall not touch us therein, nor shallfatigue therein afflict us.
35/36 And (as for) those who disbelieve, for them is the fireof hell; it shall not be finished with them entirely so thatthey should die, nor shall the chastisement thereof belightened to them: even thus do We retribute everyungrateful one.
35/37 And they shall cry therein for succour: O our Lord !take us out, we will do good deeds other than those which weused to do. Did We not preserve you alive long enough, sothat he who would be mindful in it should mind? And therecame to you the warner; therefore taste; because for theunjust, there is no helper.
35/38 Surely Allah is the Knower of what is unseen m theheavens and the earth; surely He is Cognizant of what IS mthe hearts.
35/39 He it is Who made you rulers in the land; thereforewhoever disbelieves, his unbelief is against himself; andtheir unbelief does not increase the disbelievers with theirLord in anything except hatred; and their unbelief does notincrease the disbelievers m anything except loss.
35/40 Say: Have you considered your associates which you callupon besides Allah? Show me what part of the earth they havecreated, or have they any share in the heavens; or, have Wegiven them a book so that they follow a clear argumentthereof? Nay, the unjust do not hold out promises one toanother but only to deceive.
35/41 Surely Allah upholds the heavens and the earth lest theycome to naught; and if they should come to naught, there Isnone who can uphold them after Him; surely He is theForbearing, the Forgiving.
35/42 And they swore by Allah with the strongest of theiroaths that if there came to them a warner they would bebetter guided than any of the nations; but when there cameto them a warner it increased them in naught but aversion.
35/43 (In) behaving proudly in the land and in planning evil;and the evil plans shall not beset any save the authors ofit. Then should they wait for aught except the way of theformer people? For you shall not find any alteration in thecourse of Allah; and you shall not find any change in thecourse of Allah.
35/44 Have they not travelled in the land and seen how was theend of those before them while they were stronger than thesein power? And Allah is not such that any thing in theheavens or in the earth should escape Him; surely He isKnowing, Powerful.
35/45 And were Allah to punish men for what they earn, Hewould not leave on the back of it any creature, but Herespites them till an appointed term; so when their doomshall come, then surely Allah is Seeing with respect to Hisservants.
