48/1 Surely We have given to you a clear victory
48/2 That Allah may forgive your community their past faultsand those to follow and complete His favor to you and keepyou on a right way,
48/3 And that Allah might help you with a mighty help.
48/4 He it is Who sent down tranquillity into the hearts ofthe believers that they might have more of faith added totheir faith-- and Allah's are the hosts of the heavens andthe earth, and Allah is Knowing, Wise--
48/5 That He may cause the believing men and the believingwomen to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow to abidetherein and remove from them their evil; and that is a grandachievement with Allah
48/6 And (that) He may punish the hypocritical men and thehypocritical women, and the polytheistic men and thepolytheistic women, the entertainers of evil thoughts aboutAllah. On them is the evil turn, and Allah is wroth withthem and has cursed them and prepared hell for them, andevil is the resort.
48/7 And Allah's are the hosts of the heavens and the earth;and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
48/8 Surely We have sent you as a witness and as a bearer ofgood news and as a warner,
48/9 That you may believe in Allah and His Messenger and may aidhim and revere him; and (that) you may declare His glory,morning and evening.
48/10 Surely those who swear allegiance to you do but swearallegiance to Allah; the hand of Allah is above their hands.Therefore whoever breaks (his faith), he breaks it only tothe injury of his own soul, and whoever fulfills what he hascovenanted with Allah, He will grant him a mighty reward.
48/11 Those of the dwellers of the desert who were left behindwill say to you: Our property and our families kept us busy,so ask forgiveness for us. They say with their tongues whatis not in their hearts. Say: Then who can control anythingfor you from Allah if He intends to do you harm or if Heintends to do you good; nay, Allah is Aware of what you do:
48/12 Nay! you rather thought that the Messenger and thebelievers would not return to their families ever, and thatwas made fairseeming to your hearts and you thought an evilthought and you were a people doomed to perish.
48/13 And whoever does not believe in Allah and His Messenger,then surely We have prepared burning fire for theunbelievers.
48/14 And Allah's is the kingdom. of the heavens and theearth; He forgives whom He pleases and punishes whom Hepleases, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
48/15 Those who are left behind will say when you set forthfor the gaining of acquisitions: Allow us (that) we mayfollow you. They desire to change the world of Allah. Say:By no means shall you follow us; thus did Allah say before.But they will say: Nay! you are jealous of us. Nay! they donot understand but a little.
48/16 Say to those of the dwellers of the desert who were leftbehind: You shall soon be invited (to fight) against apeople possessing mighty prowess; you will fight againstthem until they submit; then if you obey, Allah will grantyou a good reward; and if you turn back as you turned backbefore, He will punish you with a painful punishment.
48/17 There is no harm in the blind, nor is there any harm inthe lame, nor is there any harm in the sick (if they do notgo forth); and whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger, He willcause him to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow, andwhoever turns back, He will punish him with a painfulpunishment.
48/18 Certainly Allah was well pleased with the believers whenthey swore allegiance to you under the tree, and He knewwhat was in their hearts, so He sent down tranquillity onthem and rewarded them with a near victory,
48/19 And many acquisitions which they will take; and Allah isMighty, Wise.
48/20 Allah promised you many acquisitions which you willtake, then He hastened on this one for you and held back thehands of men from you, and that it may be a sign for thebelievers and that He may guide you on a right path.
48/21 And others which you have not yet been able to achieveAllah has surely encompassed them, and Allah has power overall things.
48/22 And if those who disbelieve fight with you, they wouldcertainly turn (their) backs, then they would not find anyprotector or a helper.
48/23 Such has been the course of Allah that has indeed runbefore, and you shall not find a change in Allah's course.
48/24 And He it is Who held back their hands from you and yourhands from them in the valley of Mecca after He had givenyou victory over them; and Allah is Seeing what you do.
48/25 It is they who disbelieved and turned you away from theSacred Mosque and (turned off) the offering withheld fromarriving at its destined place; and were it not for thebelieving men and the believing women, whom, not havingknown, you might have trodden down, and thus somethinghateful might have afflicted you on their account withoutknowledge-- so that Allah may cause to enter into His mercywhomsoever He pleases; had they been widely separated onefrom another, We would surely have punished those whodisbelieved from among them with a painful punishment.
48/26 When those who disbelieved harbored in their hearts(feelings of) disdain, the disdain of (the days of)ignorance, but Allah sent down His tranquillity on HisMessenger and on the believers, and made them keep the word ofguarding (against evil), and they were entitled to it andworthy of it; and Allah is Cognizant of all things.
48/27 Certainly Allah had shown to His Messenger the vision withtruth: you shall most certainly enter the Sacred Mosque, ifAllah pleases, in security, (some) having their heads shavedand (others) having their hair cut, you shall not fear, butHe knows what you do not know, so He brought about a nearvictory before that.
48/28 He it is Who sent His Messenger with the guidance and thetrue religion that He may make it prevail over all thereligions; and Allah is enough for a witness.
48/29 Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and those with him arefirm of heart against the unbelievers, compassionate amongthemselves; you will see them bowing down, prostratingthemselves, seeking grace from Allah and pleasure; theirmarks are in their faces because of the effect ofprostration; that is their description in the Taurat andtheir description in the Injeel; like as seed-produce thatputs forth its sprout, then strengthens it, so it becomesstout and stands firmly on its stem, delighting the sowersthat He may enrage the unbelievers on account of them; Allahhas promised those among them who believe and do good,forgiveness and a great reward.
