22/1 O people! guard against (the punishment from) your Lord;surely the violence of the hour is a grievous thing.
22/2 On the day when you shall see it, every woman giving suckshall quit in confusion what she suckled, and every pregnantwoman shall lay down her burden, and you shall see menintoxicated, and they shall not be intoxicated but thechastisement of Allah will be severe.
22/3 And among men there is he who disputes about Allahwithout knowledge and follows every rebellious Shaitan;
22/4 Against him it is written down that whoever takes him fora friend, he shall lead him astray and conduct him to thechastisement of the burning fire.
22/5 O people! if you are in doubt about the raising, thensurely We created you from dust, then from a small seed,then from a clot, then from a lump of flesh, complete inmake and incomplete, that We may make clear to you; and Wecause what We please to stay in the wombs till an appointedtime, then We bring you forth as babies, then that you mayattain your maturity; and of you is he who is caused to die,and of you is he who is brought back to the worst part oflife, so that after having knowledge he does not knowanything; and you see the earth sterile land, but when Wesend down on it the water, it stirs and swells and bringsforth of every kind a beautiful herbage.
22/6 This is because Allah is the Truth and because He giveslife to the dead and because He has power over all things
22/7 And because the hour is coming, there is no doubt aboutit; and because Allah shall raise up those who are in thegraves.
22/8 And among men there is he who disputes about Allahwithout knowledge and without guidance and without anilluminating book,
22/9 Turning away haughtily that he may lead (others) astrayfrom the way of Allah; for him is disgrace in this world,and on the day of resurrection We will make him taste thepunishment of burning:
22/10 This is due to what your two hands have sent before, andbecause Allah is not in the least unjust to the servants.
22/11 And among men is he who serves Allah (standing) on theverge, so that if good befalls him he is satisfiedtherewith, but if a trial afflict him he turns backheadlong; he loses this world as well as the hereafter; thatis a manifest loss.
22/12 He calls besides Allah upon that which does not harm himand that which does not profit him, that is the greatstraying.
22/13 He calls upon him whose harm is nearer than his profit;evil certainly is the guardian and evil certainly is theassociate.
22/14 Surely Allah will cause those who believe and do gooddeeds to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow, surelyAllah does what He pleases.
22/15 Whoever thinks that Allah will not assist him in thislife and the hereafter, let him stretch a rope to theceiling, then let him cut (it) off, then let him see if hisstruggle will take away that at which he is enraged.
22/16 And thus have We revealed it, being clear arguments, andbecause Allah guides whom He intends.
22/17 Surely those who believe and those who are Jews and theSabeans and the Christians and the Magians and those whoassociate (others with Allah)-- surely Allah will decidebetween them on the day of resurrection; surely Allah is awitness over all things.
22/18 Do you not see that Allah is He, Whom obeys whoever isin the heavens and whoever is in the earth, and the sun andthe moon and the stars, and the mountains and the trees, andthe animals and many of the people; and many there areagainst whom chastisement has become necessary; andwhomsoever Allah abases, there is none who can make himhonorable; surely Allah does what He pleases.
22/19 These are two adversaries who dispute about their Lord;then (as to) those who disbelieve, for them are cut outgarments of fire, boiling water shall be poured over theirheads.
22/20 With it shall be melted what is in their bellies and(their) skins as well.
22/21 And for them are whips of iron.
22/22 Whenever they will desire to go forth from it, fromgrief, they shall be turned back into it, and taste thechastisement of burning.
22/23 Surely Allah will make those who believe and do gooddeeds enter gardens beneath which rivers flow; they shall beadorned therein with bracelets of gold and (with) pearls,and their garments therein shall be of silk.
22/24 And they are guided to goodly words and they are guidedinto the path of the Praised One.
22/25 Surely (as for) those who disbelieve, and hinder (men)from Allah's way and from the Sacred Mosque which We havemade equally for all men, (for) the dweller therein and(for) the visitor, and whoever shall incline therein towrong unjustly, We will make him taste of a painfulchastisement.
22/26 And when We assigned to Ibrahim the place of the House,saying: Do not associate with Me aught, and purify My Housefor those who make the circuit and stand to pray and bow andprostrate themselves.
22/27 And proclaim among men the Pilgrimage: they will come toyou on foot and on every lean camel, coming from everyremote path,
22/28 That they may witness advantages for them and mentionthe name of Allah during stated days over what He has giventhem of the cattle quadrupeds, then eat of them and feed thedistressed one, the needy.
22/29 Then let them accomplish their needful acts of shavingand cleansing, and let them fulfil their vows and let themgo round the Ancient House.
22/30 That (shall be so); and whoever respects the sacredordinances of Allah, it is better for him with his Lord; andthe cattle are made lawful for you, except that which isrecited to you, therefore avoid the uncleanness of the idolsand avoid false words,
22/31 Being upright for Allah, not associating aught with Himand whoever associates (others) with Allah, it is as thoughhe had fallen from on high, then the birds snatch him awayor the wind carries him off to a far-distant place.
22/32 That (shall be so); and whoever respects the signs ofAllah, this surely is (the outcome) of the piety of hearts.
22/33 You have advantages in them till a fixed time, thentheir place of sacrifice is the Ancient House.
22/34 And to every nation We appointed acts of devotion thatthey may mention the name of Allah on what He has given themof the cattle quadrupeds; so your god is One God, thereforeto Him should you submit, and give good news to the humble,
22/35 (To) those whose hearts tremble when Allah is mentioned,and those who are patient under that which afflicts them,and those who keep up prayer, and spend (benevolently) outof what We have given them.
22/36 And (as for) the camels, We have made them of the signsof the religion of Allah for you; for you therein is muchgood; therefore mention the name of Allah on them as theystand in a row, then when they fall down eat of them andfeed the poor man who is contented and the beggar; thus haveWe made them subservient to you, that you may be grateful.
22/37 There does not reach Allah their flesh nor their blood,but to Him is acceptable the guarding (against evil) on yourpart; thus has He made them subservient to you, that you maymagnify Allah because He has guided you aright; and givegood news to those who do good (to others).
22/38 Surely Allah will defend those who believe; surely Allahdoes not love any one who is unfaithful, ungrateful.
22/39 Permission (to fight) is given to those upon whom war ismade because they are oppressed, and most surely Allah iswell able to assist them;
22/40 Those who have been expelled from their homes without ajust cause except that they say: Our Lord is Allah. And hadthere not been Allah's repelling some people by others,certainly there would have been pulled down cloisters andchurches and synagogues and mosques in which Allah's name ismuch remembered; and surely Allah will help him who helpsHis cause; most surely Allah is Strong, Mighty.
22/41 Those who, should We establish them in the land, willkeep up prayer and pay the poor-rate and enjoin good andforbid evil; and Allah's is the end of affairs.
22/42 And if they reject you, then already before you did thepeople of Nuh and Ad and Samood reject (prophets).
22/43 And the people of Ibrahim and the people of Lut,
22/44 As well as those of Madyan and Musa (too) was rejected,but I gave respite to the unbelievers, then did I overtakethem, so how (severe) was My disapproval.
22/45 So how many a town did We destroy while it was unjust,so it was fallen down upon its roofs, and (how many a)deserted well and palace raised high.
22/46 Have they not travelled in the land so that they shouldhave hearts with which to understand, or ears with which tohear? For surely it is not the eyes that are blind, butblind are the hearts which are in the breasts.
22/47 And they ask you to hasten on the punishment, and Allahwill by no means fail in His promise, and surely a day withyour Lord is as a thousand years of what you number.
22/48 And how many a town to which I gave respite while it wasunjust, then I overtook it, and to Me is the return.
22/49 Say: O people! I am only a plain warner to you.
22/50 Then (as for) those who believe and do good, they shallhave forgiveness and an honorable sustenance.
22/51 And (as for) those who strive to oppose Ourcommunications, they shall be the inmates of the flamingfire.
22/52 And We did not send before you any messenger or prophet,but when he desired, the Shaitan made a suggestionrespecting his desire; but Allah annuls that which theShaitan casts, then does Allah establish His communications,and Allah is Knowing, Wise,
22/53 So that He may make what the Shaitan casts a trial forthose in whose hearts is disease and those whose hearts arehard; and most surely the unjust are in a great opposition,
22/54 And that those who have been given the knowledge mayknow that it is the truth from your Lord, so they maybelieve in it and their hearts may be lowly before it; andmost surely Allah is the Guide of those who believe into aright path.
22/55 And those who disbelieve shall not cease to be in doubtconcerning it until the hour overtakes them suddenly, orthere comes on them the chastisement of a destructive day.
22/56 The kingdom on that day shall be Allah's; He will judgebetween them; so those who believe and do good will be ingardens of bliss.
22/57 And (as for) those who disbelieve in and reject Ourcommunications, these it is who shall have a disgracefulchastisement.
22/58 And (as for) those who fly in Allah's way and are thenslain or die, Allah will most certainly grant them a goodlysustenance, and most surely Allah is the best Giver ofsustenance.
22/59 He will certainly cause them to enter a place ofentrance which they shall be well pleased with, and mostsurely Allah is Knowing, Forbearing.
22/60 That (shall be so); and he who retaliates with the likeof that with which he has been afflicted and he has beenoppressed, Allah will most certainly aid him; mostsurely Allah is Pardoning, Forgiving.
22/61 That is because Allah causes the night to enter into theday and causes the day to enter into the night, and becauseAllah is Hearing, Seeing.
22/62 That is because Allah is the Truth, and that what theycall upon besides Him-- that is the falsehood, and becauseAllah is the High, the Great.
22/63 Do you not see that Allah sends down water from thecloud so the earth becomes green? Surely Allah is Benignant,Aware.
22/64 His is whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is inthe earth; and most surely Allah is the Self-sufficient, thePraised.
22/65 Do you not see that Allah has made subservient to youwhatsoever is in the earth and the ships running in the seaby His command? And He withholds the heaven from falling onthe earth except with His permission; most surely Allah isCompassionate, Merciful to men.
22/66 And He it is Who has brought you to life, then He willcause you to die, then bring you to life (again); mostsurely man is ungrateful.
22/67 To every nation We appointed acts of devotion which theyobserve, therefore they should not dispute with you aboutthe matter and call to your Lord; most surely you are on aright way.
22/68 And if they contend with you, say: Allah best knows whatyou do.
22/69 Allah will judge between you on the day of resurrectionrespecting that in which you differ.
22/70 Do you not know that Allah knows what is in the heavenand the earth? Surely this is in a book; surely this is easyto Allah.
22/71 And they serve besides Allah that for which He has notsent any authority, and that of which they have noknowledge; and for the unjust there shall be no helper.
22/72 And when Our clear communications are recited to themyou will find denial on the faces of those who disbelieve;they almost spring upon those who recite to them Ourcommunications. Say: Shall I inform you of what is worsethan this? The fire; Allah has promised it to those whodisbelieve; and how evil the resort!
22/73 O people! a parable is set forth, therefore listen toit: surely those whom you call upon besides Allah cannotcreate fly, though they should all gather for it, and shouldthe fly snatch away anything from them, they could not takeit back from i weak are the invoker and the invoked.
22/74 They have not estimated Allah with the estimation that idue to Him; most surely Allah is Strong, Mighty.
22/75 Allah chooses messengers from among the angels and fromamong the men; surely Allah is Hearing, Seeing.
22/76 He knows what is before them and what is behind them andto Allah are all affairs turned back.
22/77 O you who believe! bow down and prostrate yourselves andserve your Lord, and do good that you may succeed.
22/78 And strive hard in (the way of) Allah, (such) a strivinga is due to Him; He has chosen you and has not laid upon youan hardship in religion; the faith of your father Ibrahim;He named you Muslims before and in this, that the Messengermay be a bearer of witness to you, and you may be bearers ofwitness to the people; therefore keep up prayer and pay thepoor-rate and hold fast by Allah; He is your Guardian; howexcellent the Guardian and how excellent the Helper!
