57/1 Whatever is in the heavens and the earth declares theglory of Allah, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
57/2 His is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth; He giveslife and causes death; and He has power over all things.
57/3 He is the First and the Last and the Ascendant (over all)and the Knower of hidden things, and He is Cognizant of allthings.
57/4 He it is who created the heavens and the earth in sixperiods, and He is firm in power; He knows that which goesdeep down into the earth and that which comes forth out ofit, and that which comes down from the heaven and that whichgoes up into it, and He is with you wherever you are; andAllah sees what you do.
57/5 His is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth; and toAllah are (all) affairs returned.
57/6 He causes the night to enter in upon the day, and causesthe day to enter in upon the night, and He is Cognizant ofwhat is in the hearts.
57/7 Believe in Allah and His Messenger, and spend out of whatHe has made you to be successors of; for those of you whobelieve and spend shall have a great reward.
57/8 And what reason have you that you should not believe inAllah? And the Messenger calls on you that you may believe inyour Lord, and indeed He has made a covenant with you if youare believers.
57/9 He it is who sends down clear communications upon Hisservant, that he may bring you forth from utter darknessinto light; and most surely Allah is Kind, Merciful to you.
57/10 And what reason have you that you should not spend inAllah's way? And Allah's is the inheritance of the heavensand the earth, not alike among you are those who spentbefore the victory and fought (and those who did not): theyare more exalted in rank than those who spent and foughtafterwards; and Allah has promised good to all; and Allah isAware of what you do.
57/11 Who is there that will offer to Allah a good gift so Hewill double it for him, and he shall have an excellentreward.
57/12 On that day you will see the faithful men and thefaithful women-- their light running before them and on theirright hand-- good news for you today: gardens beneath whichrivers flow, to abide therein, that is the grandachievement.
57/13 On the day when the hypocritical men and thehypocritical women will say to those who believe: Wait forus, that we may have light from your light; it shall besaid: Turn back and seek a light. Then separation would bebrought about between them, with a wall having a door in it;(as for) the inside of it, there shall be mercy in it, and(as for) the outside of it, before it there shall bepunishment.
57/14 They will cry out to them: Were we not with you? Theyshall say: Yea! but you caused yourselves to fall intotemptation, and you waited and doubted, and vain desiresdeceived you tillthe threatened punishment of Allah came, while thearchdeceiver deceived you about Allah.
57/15 So today ransom shall not be accepted from you nor fromthose who disbelieved; your abode is the fire; it is yourfriend and evil is the resort.
57/16 Has not the time yet come for those who believe thattheir hearts should be humble for the remembrance of Allahand what has come down of the truth? And that they shouldnot be like those who were given the Book before, but thetime became prolonged to them, so their hearts hardened, andmost of them are transgressors.
57/17 Know that Allah gives life to the earth after its death;indeed, We have made the communications clear to you thatyou may understand.
57/18 Surely (as for) the charitable men and the charitablewomen and (those who) set apart for Allah a goodly portion,it shall be doubled for them and they shall have a noblereward.
57/19 And (as for) those who believe in Allah and Hismessengers, these it is that are the truthful and the faithfulones in the sight of their Lord: they shall have theirreward and their light, and (as for) those who disbelieveand reject Our communications, these are the inmates of thehell.
57/20 Know that this world's life is only sport and play andgaiety and boasting among yourselves, and a vying in themultiplication of wealth and children, like the rain, whosecausing the vegetation to grow, pleases the husbandmen, thenit withers away so that you will see it become yellow, thenit becomes dried up and broken down; and in the hereafter isa severe chastisement and (also) forgiveness from Allah and(His) pleasure; and this world's life is naught but means ofdeception.
57/21 Hasten to forgiveness from your Lord and to a gardenthe extensiveness of which is as the extensiveness of theheaven and the earth; it is prepared for those who believein Allah and His messengers; that is the grace of Allah: Hegives it to whom He pleases, and Allah is the Lord of mightygrace.
57/22 No evil befalls on the earth nor in your own souls, butit is in a book before We bring it into existence; surelythat is easy to Allah:
57/23 So that you may not grieve for what has escaped you, norbe exultant at what He has given you; and Allah does notlove any arrogant boaster:
57/24 Those who are niggardly and enjoin niggardliness on men;and whoever turns back, then surely Allah is He Who is theSelfsufficient, the Praised.
57/25 Certainly We sent Our messengers with clear arguments, andsent down with them the Book and the balance that men mayconduct themselves with equity; and We have made the iron,wherein is great violence and advantages to men, and thatAllah may know who helps Him and His messengers in the secret;surely Allah is Strong, Mighty.
57/26 And certainly We sent Nuh and Ibrahim and We gave totheir offspring the (gift of) prophecy and the Book; sothere are among them those who go aright, and most of themare transgressors.
57/27 Then We made Our messengers to follow in their footsteps,and We sent Isa son of Marium afterwards, and We gave himthe Injeel, and We put in the hearts of those who followedhim kindness and mercy; and (as for) monkery, they innovatedit-- We did not prescribe it to them-- only to seek Allah'spleasure, but they did not observe it with its dueobservance; so We gave to those of them who believed theirreward, and most of them are transgressors.
57/28 O you who believe! be careful of (your duty to) Allahand believe in His Messenger: He will give you two portions ofHis mercy, and make for you a light with which you willwalk, and forgive you, and Allah is Forgiving, Merciful;
57/29 So that the followers of the Book may know that they donot control aught of the grace of Allah, and that grace is inAllah's hand, He gives it to whom He pleases; and Allah isthe Lord of mighty grace.
