59/1 Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earthdeclares the glory of Allah, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
59/2 He it is Who caused those who disbelieved of thefollowers of the Book to go forth from their homes at thefirst banishment you did not think that they would go forth,while they were certain that their fortresses would defendthem against Allah; but Allah came to them whence they didnot expect, and cast terror into their hearts; theydemolished their houses with their own hands and the handsof the believers; therefore take a lesson, O you who haveeyes!
59/3 And had it not been that Allah had decreed for them theexile, He would certainly have punished them in this world,and m the hereafter they shall have chastisement of thefire.
59/4 That is because they acted in opposition to Allah and HisMessenger, and whoever acts in opposition to Allah, thensurely Allah is severe in retributing (evil).
59/5 Whatever palm-tree you cut down or leave standing uponits roots, It is by Allah's command, and that He may abasethe transgressors.
59/6 And whatever Allah restored to His Messenger from them youdid not press forward against it any horse or a riding camelbut Allah gives authority to His messengers against whom Hepleases, and Allah has power over all things.
59/7 Whatever Allah has restored to His Messenger from thepeople of the towns, it is for Allah and for the Messenger,and for the near of kin and the orphans and the needy andthe wayfarer, so that it may not be a thing taken by turnsamong the rich of you, and whatever the Messenger gives you,accept it, and from whatever he forbids you, keep back, andbe careful of (your duty to) Allah; surely Allah is severein retributing (evil):
59/8 (It is) for the poor who fled their homes and theirpossessions, seeking grace of Allah and (His) pleasure, andassisting Allah and His Messenger: these it is that are thetruthful.
59/9 And those who made their abode in the city and in thefaith before them love those who have fled to them, and donot find in their hearts a need of what they are given, andprefer (them) before themselves though poverty may afflictthem, and whoever is preserved from the niggardliness of hissoul, these it is that are the successful ones.
59/10 And those who come after them say: Our Lord! forgive usand those of our brethren who had precedence of us in faith,and do not allow any spite to remain in our hearts towardsthose who believe, our Lord! surely Thou art Kind, Merciful.
59/11 Have you not seen those who have become hypocrites? Theysay to those of their brethren who disbelieve from among thefollowers of the Book: If you are driven forth, we shallcertainly go forth with you, and we will never obey any oneconcerning you, and if you are fought against, we willcertainly help you, and Allah bears witness that they aremost surely liars.
59/12 Certainly if these are driven forth, they will not goforth with them, and if they are fought against, they willnot help them, and even if they help-them, they willcertainly turn (their) backs, then they shall not be helped.
59/13 You are certainly greater in being feared in theirhearts than Allah; that is because they are a people who donot understand
59/14 They will not fight against you in a body save infortified towns or from behind walls; their fighting betweenthem is severe, you may think them as one body, and theirhearts are disunited; that is because they are a people whohave no sense.
59/15 Like those before them shortly; they tasted the evilresult of their affair, and they shall have a painfulpunishment.
59/16 Like the Shaitan when he says to man: Disbelieve, butwhen he disbelieves, he says: I am surely clear of you;surely I fear Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
59/17 Therefore the end of both of them is that they are bothin the fire to abide therein, and that is the reward of theunjust.
59/18 O you who believe! be careful of (your duty to) Allah,and let every soul consider what it has sent on for themorrow, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah; surely Allahis Aware of what you do.
59/19 And be not like those who forsook Allah, so He made themforsake their own souls: these it is that are thetransgressors.
59/20 Not alike are the inmates of the fire and the dwellersof the garden: the dwellers of the garden are they that arethe achievers.
59/21 Had We sent down this Quran on a mountain, you wouldcertainly have seen it falling down, splitting asunderbecause of the fear of Allah, and We set forth theseparables to men that they may reflect.
59/22 He is Allah besides Whom there is no god; the Knower ofthe unseen and the seen; He is the Beneficent, the Merciful
59/23 He is Allah, besides Whom there is no god; the King, theHoly, the Giver of peace, the Granter of security, Guardianover all, the Mighty, the Supreme, the Possessor of everygreatness Glory be to Allah from what they set up (withHim).
59/24 He is Allah the Creator, the Maker, the Fashioner; Hisare the most excellent names; whatever is in the heavens andthe earth declares His glory; and He is the Mighty, theWise.
