49/1 O you who believe! be not forward in the presence ofAllah and His Messenger, and be careful of (your duty to)Allah; surely Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
49/2 O you who believe! do not raise your voices above thevoice of the Prophet, and do not speak loud to him as youspeak loud to one another, lest your deeds became null whileyou do not perceive.
49/3 Surely those who lower their voices before Allah'sMessenger are they whose hearts Allah has proved for guarding(against evil); they shall have forgiveness and a greatreward.
49/4 (As for) those who call out to you from behind theprivate chambers, surely most of them do not understand.
49/5 And if they wait patiently until you come out to them, itwould certainly be better for them, and Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
49/6 O you who believe! if an evil-doer comes to you with areport, look carefully into it, lest you harm a people inignorance, then be sorry for what you have done.
49/7 And know that among you is Allah's Messenger; should heobey you in many a matter, you would surely fall intodistress, but Allah has endeared the faith to you and hasmade it seemly in your hearts, and He has made hateful toyou unbelief and transgression and disobedience; these it isthat are the followers of a right way.
49/8 By grace from Allah and as a favor; and Allah is Knowing,Wise.
49/9 And if two parties of the believers quarrel, make peacebetween them; but if one of them acts wrongfully towards theother, fight that which acts wrongfully until it returns toAllah's command; then if it returns, make peace between themwith justice and act equitably; surely Allah loves those whoact equitably.
49/10 The believers are but brethren, therefore make peacebetween your brethren and be careful of (your duty to) Allahthat mercy may be had on you.
49/11 O you who believe! let not (one) people laugh at(another) people perchance they may be better than they, norlet women (laugh) at (other) women, perchance they may bebetter than they; and do not find fault with your own peoplenor call one another by nicknames; evil is a bad name afterfaith, and whoever does not turn, these it is that are theunjust.
49/12 O you who believe! avoid most of suspicion, for surelysuspicion in some cases is a sin, and do not spy nor letsome of you backbite others. Does one of you like to eat theflesh of his dead brother? But you abhor it; and be carefulof (your duty to) Allah, surely Allah is Oft-returning (tomercy), Merciful.
49/13 O you men! surely We have created you of a male and afemale, and made you tribes and families that you may knoweach other; surely the most honorable of you with Allah isthe one among you most careful (of his duty); surely Allahis Knowing, Aware.
49/14 The dwellers of the desert say: We believe. Say: You donot believe but say, We submit; and faith has not yetentered into your hearts; and if you obey Allah and HisMessenger, He will not diminish aught of your deeds; surelyAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
49/15 The believers are only those who believe in Allah andHis Messenger then they doubt not and struggle hard with theirwealth and their lives in the way of Allah; they are thetruthful ones.
49/16 Say: Do you apprise Allah of your religion, and Allahknows what is in the heavens and what is in the earth; andAllah is Cognizant of all things.
49/17 They think that they lay you under an obligation bybecoming Muslims. Say: Lay me not under obligation by yourIslam: rather Allah lays you under an obligation by guidingyou to the faith if you are truthful.
49/18 Surely Allah knows the unseen things of the heavens andthe earth; and Allah sees what you do.
