28/1 Ta sin Mim.
28/2 These are the verses of the Book that makes (things)clear.
28/3 We recite to you from the account of Musa and Firon withtruth for people who believe.
28/4 Surely Firon exalted himself in the land and made itspeople into parties, weakening one party from among them; heslaughtered their sons and let their women live; surely hewas one of the mischiefmakers.
28/5 And We desired to bestow a favor upon those who weredeemed weak in the land, and to make them the Imams, and tomake them the heirs,
28/6 And to grant them power in the land, and to make Fironand Haman and their hosts see from them what they feared.
28/7 And We revealed to Musa's mothers, saying: Give him suck,then when you fear for him, cast him into the river and donot fear nor grieve; surely We wi!l bring him back to youand make him one of the messengers.
28/8 And Firon's family took him up that he might be an enemyand a grief for them; surely Firon and Haman and their hostswere wrongdoers.
28/9 And Firon's wife said: A refreshment of the eye to me andto you; do not slay him; maybe he will be useful to us, orwe may take him for a son; and they did not perceive.
28/10 And the heart of Musa's mother was free (from anxiety)she would have almost disclosed it had We not strengthenedher heart so that she might be of the believers.
28/11 And she said to his sister: Follow him up. So shewatched him from a distance while they did not perceive,
28/12 And We ordained that he refused to suck any fostermother before, so she said: Shall I point out to you thepeople of a house who will take care of him for you, andthey will be benevolent to him?
28/13 So We gave him back to his mother that her eye might berefreshed, and that she might no grieve, and that she mightknow that the promise of Allah is true, but most of them donot know.
28/14 And when he attained his maturity and became full grown,We granted him wisdom and knowledge; and thus do We rewardthose who do good (to others).
28/15 And he went into the city at a time of unvigilance onthe part of its people, so he found therein two menfighting, one being of his party and the other of his foes,and he who was of his party cried out to him for helpagainst him who was of his enemies, so Musa struck him withhis fist and killed him. He said: This is on account of theShaitan's doing; surely he is an enemy, openly leadingastray.
28/16 He said: My Lord! surely I have done harm to myself, sodo Thou protect me. So He protected him; surely He is theForgiving, the Merciful.
28/17 He said: My Lord! because Thou hast bestowed a favor onme, I shall never be a backer of the guilty.
28/18 And he was in the city, fearing, awaiting, when lo! hewho had asked his assistance the day before was crying outto him for aid. Musa said to him: You are most surely oneerring manifestly.
28/19 So when he desired to seize him who was an enemy to themboth, he said: O Musa! do you intend to kill me as youkilled a person yesterday? You desire nothing but that youshould be a tyrant in the land, and you do not desire to beof those who act aright.
28/20 And a man came running from the remotest part of thecity. He said: O Musa! surely the chiefs are consultingtogether to slay you, therefore depart (at once); surely Iam of those who wish well to you.
28/21 So he went forth therefrom, fearing, awaiting, (and) hesaid: My Lord! deliver me from the unjust people.
28/22 And when he turned his face towards Madyan, he said:Maybe my Lord will guide me in the right path.
28/23 And when he came to the water of Madyan, he found on ita group of men watering, and he found besides them two womenkeeping back (their flocks). He said: What is the matterwith you? They said: We cannot water until the shepherdstake away (their sheep) from the water, and our father is avery old man.
28/24 So he watered (their sheep) for them, then went back tothe shade and said: My Lord! surely I stand in need ofwhatever good Thou mayest send down to me.
28/25 Then one of the two women came to him walking bashfully.She said: My father invites you that he may give you thereward of your having watered for us. So when he came to himand gave to him the account, he said: Fear not, you aresecure from the unjust people.
28/26 Said one of them: O my father! employ him, surely thebest of those that you can employ is the strong man, thefaithful one.
28/27 He said: I desire to marry one of these two daughters ofmine to you on condition that you should serve me for eightyears; but if you complete ten, it will be of your own freewill, and I do not wish to be hard to you; if Allah please,you will find me one of the good.
28/28 He said: This shall be (an agreement) between me andyou; whichever of the two terms I fulfill, there shall be nowrongdoing to me; and Allah is a witness of what we say.
28/29 So when Musa had fulfilled the term, and he journeyedwith his family, he perceived on this side of the mountain afire. He said to his family: Wait, I have seen a fire, maybeI will bring to you from it some news or a brand of fire, sothat you may warm yourselves.
28/30 And when he came to it, a voice was uttered from theright side of the valley in the blessed spot of the bush,saying: O Musa! surely I am Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
28/31 And saying: Cast down you staff. So when he saw it inmotion as if it were a serpent, he turned back retreating,and did not return. O Musa! come forward and fear not;surely you are of those who are secure;
28/32 Enter your hand into the opening of your bosom, it willcome forth white without evil, and draw your hand toyourself to ward off fear: so these two shall be twoarguments from your Lord to Firon and his chiefs, surelythey are a transgressing people.
28/33 He said: My Lord! surely I killed one of them, so I fearlest they should slay me;
28/34 And my brother, Haroun, he is more eloquent of tonguethan I, therefore send him with me as an aider, verifyingme: surely I fear that they would reject me.
28/35 He said: We will strengthen your arm with your brother,and We will give you both an authority, so that they shallnot reach you; (go) with Our signs; you two and those whofollow you shall be uppermost.
28/36 So when Musa came to them with Our clear signs, theysaid: This is nothing but forged enchantment, and we neverheard of it amongst our fathers of old.
28/37 And Musa said: My Lord knows best who comes withguidance from Him, and whose shall be the good end of theabode; surely the unjust shall not be successful.
28/38 And Firon said: O chiefs! I do not know of any god foryou besides myself; therefore kindle a fire for me, O Haman,for brick, then prepare for me a lofty building so that Imay obtain knowledge of Musa's god, and most surely I thinkhim to be one of the liars.
28/39 And he was unjustly proud in the land, he and his hosts,and they deemed that they would not be brought back to Us.
28/40 So We caught hold of him and his hosts, then We castthem into the sea, and see how was the end of the unjust.
28/41 And We made them Imams who call to the fire, and on theday of resurrection they shall not be assisted.
28/42 And We caused a curse to follow them in this world, andon the day of resurrection they shall be of those made toappear hideous.
28/43 And certainly We gave Musa the Book after We haddestroyed the former generations, clear arguments for menand a guidance and a mercy, that they may be mindful.
28/44 And you were not on the western side when We revealed toMusa the commandment, and you were not among the witnesses;
28/45 But We raised up generations, then life became prolongedto them; and you were not dwelling among the people ofMadyan, reciting to them Our communications, but We were thesenders.
28/46 And you were not on this side of the mountain when Wecalled, but a mercy from your Lord that you may warn apeople to whom no warner came before you, that they may bemindful.
28/47 And were it not that there should befall them a disasterfor what their hands have sent before, then they should say:Our Lord! why didst Thou not send to us a messenger so thatwe should have followed Thy communications and been of thebelievers !
28/48 But (now) when the truth has come to them from Us, theysay: Why is he not given the like of what was given to Musa?What! did they not disbelieve in what Musa was given before?They say: Two magicians backing up each other; and they say:Surely we are unbelievers in all.
28/49 Say: Then bring some (other) book from Allah which is abetter guide than both of them, (that) I may follow it, ifyou are truthful.
28/50 But if they do not answer you, then know that they onlyfollow their low desires; and who is more erring than he whofollows his low desires without any guidance from Allah?Surely Allah does not guide the unjust people.
28/51 And certainly We have made the word to reach them sothat they may be mindful.
28/52 (As to) those whom We gave the Book before it, they arebelievers in it.
28/53 And when it is recited to them they say: We believe init surely it is the truth from our Lord; surely we weresubmitters before this.
28/54 These shall be granted their reward twice, because theyare steadfast and they repel evil with good and spend out ofwhat We have given them.
28/55 And when they hear idle talk they turn aside from it andsay: We shall have our deeds and you shall have your deeds;peace be on you, we do not desire the ignorant.
28/56 Surely you cannot guide whom you love, but Allah guideswhom He pleases, and He knows best the followers of theright way.
28/57 And they say: If we follow the guidance with you, weshall be carried off from our country. What ! have We notsettled them in a safe, sacred territory to which fruits ofevery kind shall be drawn?-- a sustenance from Us; but most ofthem do not know.
28/58 And how many a town have We destroyed which exulted inits means of subsistence, so these are their abodes, theyhave not been dwelt in after them except a little, and Weare the inheritors,
28/59 And your Lord never destroyed the towns until He raisedin their metropolis a messenger, reciting to them Ourcommunications, and We never destroyed the towns except whentheir people were unjust.
28/60 And whatever things you have been given are only aprovision of this world's life and its adornment, andwhatever is with Allah is better and more lasting; do younot then understand?
28/61 Is he to whom We have promised a goodly promise which heshall meet with like him whom We have provided with theprovisions of this world's life, then on the day ofresurrection he shall be of those who are brought up?
28/62 And on the day when He will call them and say: Where arethose whom you deemed to be My associates?
28/63 Those against whom the sentence has become confirmedwill say: Our Lord! these are they whom we caused to err; wecaused them to err as we ourselves did err; to Thee wedeclare ourselves to be clear (of them); they never servedUs.
28/64 And it will be said: Call your associate-gods. So theywill call upon them, but they will not answer them, and theyshall see the punishment; would that they had followed theright way!
28/65 And on the day when He shall call them and say: What wasthe answer you gave to the messengers?
28/66 Then the pleas shall become obscure to them on that day,so they shall not ask each other.
28/67 But as to him who repents and believes and does good,maybe he will be among the successful:
28/68 And your Lord creates and chooses whom He pleases; tochoose is not theirs; glory be to Allah, and exalted be Heabove what they associate (with Him).
28/69 And your Lord knows what their breasts conceal and whatthey manifest.
28/70 And He is Allah, there is no god but He! All praise isdue to Him in this (life) and the hereafter, and His is thejudgment, and to Him you shall be brought back.
28/71 Say: Tell me, if Allah were to make the night tocontinue incessantly on you till the day of resurrection,who is the god besides Allah that could bring you light? Doyou not then hear?
28/72 Say: Tell me, if Allah were to make the day to continueincessantly on you till the day of resurrection, who is thegod besides Allah that could bring you the night in whichyou take rest? Do you not then see?
28/73 And out of His mercy He has made for you the night andthe day, that you may rest therein, and that you may seek ofHis grace, and that you may give thanks.
28/74 And on the day when He shall call them and say: Whereare those whom you deemed to be My associates?
28/75 And We will draw forth from among every nation a witnessand say: Bring your proof; then shall they know that thetruth is Allah's, and that which they forged shall departfrom them.
28/76 Surely Qaroun was of the people of Musa, but he rebelledagainst them, and We had given him of the treasures, so muchso that his hoards of wealth would certainly weigh down acompany of men possessed of great strength. When his peoplesaid to him: Do not exult, surely Allah does not love theexultant;
28/77 And seek by means of what Allah has given you the futureabode, and do not neglect your portion of this world, and dogood (to others) as Allah has done good to you, and do notseek to make mischief in the land, surely Allah does notlove the mischief-makers.
28/78 He said: I have been given this only on account of theknowledge I have. Did he not know that Allah had destroyedbefore him of the generations those who were mightier instrength than he and greater in assemblage? And the guiltyshall not be asked about their faults.
28/79 So he went forth to his people in his finery. Those whodesire this world's life said: O would that we had the likeof what Qaroun is given; most surely he is possessed ofmighty good fortune.
28/80 And those who were given the knowledge said: Woe to you!Allah's reward is better for him who believes and does good,and none is made to receive this except the patient.
28/81 Thus We made the earth to swallow up him and his abode;so he had no body of helpers to assist him against Allah norwas he of those who can defend themselves.
28/82 And those who yearned for his place only the day beforebegan to say: Ah! (know) that Allah amplifies and straitensthe means of subsistence for whom He pleases of Hisservants; had not Allah been gracious to us, He would mostsurely have abased us; ah! (know) that the ungrateful arenever successful.
28/83 (As for) that future abode, We assign it to those whohave no desire to exalt themselves in the earth nor to makemischief and the good end is for those who guard (againstevil)
28/84 Whoever brings good, he shall have better than it, andwhoever brings evil, those who do evil shall not be rewarded(for) aught except what they did.
28/85 Most surely He Who has made the Quran binding on youwill bring you back to the destination. Say: My Lord knowsbest him who has brought the guidance and him who is inmanifest error.
28/86 And you did not expect that the Book would be inspiredto you, but it is a mercy from your Lord, therefore be not abacker-up of the unbelievers.
28/87 And let them not turn you aside from the communicationsof Allah after they have been revealed to you, and call(men) to your Lord and be not of the polytheists.
28/88 And call not with Allah any other god; there is no godbut He, every thing is perishable but He; His is thejudgment, and to Him you shall be brought back.
