18/1 (All) praise is due to Allah, Who revealed the Book to Hisservant and did not make in it any crookedness.
18/2 Rightly directing, that he might give warning of severepunishment from Him and give good news to the believers who dogood that they shall have a goodly reward,
18/3 Staying in it for ever;
18/4 And warn those who say: Allah has taken a son.
18/5 They have no knowledge of it, nor had their fathers; a grievousword it is that comes out of their mouths; they speak nothing buta lie.
18/6 Then maybe you will kill yourself with grief, sorrowing afterthem, if they do not believe in this announcement.
18/7 Surely We have made whatever is on the earth an embellishmentfor it, so that We may try them (as to) which of them is best inworks.
18/8 And most surely We will make what is on it bare ground withoutherbage.
18/9 Or, do you think that the Fellows of the Cave and theInscription were of Our wonderful signs?
18/10 When the youths sought refuge in the cave, they said: OurLord! grant us mercy from Thee, and provide for us a right coursein our affair.
18/11 So We prevented them from hearing in the cave for a number ofyears.
18/12 Then We raised them up that We might know which of the twoparties was best able to compute the time for which theyremained.
18/13 We relate to you their story with the truth; surely they wereyouths who believed in their Lord and We increased them inguidance.
18/14 And We strengthened their hearts with patience, when theystood up and said: Our Lord is the Lord of the heavens and theearth; we will by no means call upon any god besides Him, forthen indeed we should have said an extravagant thing.
18/15 These our people have taken gods besides Him; why do they notproduce any clear authority in their support? Who is then moreunjust than he who forges a lie against Allah?
18/16 And when you forsake them and what they worship save Allah,betake yourselves for refuge to the cave; your Lord will extendto you largely of His mercy and provide for you a profitablecourse in your affair.
18/17 And you might see the sun when it rose, decline from theircave towards the right hand, and when it set, leave them behindon the left while they were in a wide space thereof. This is ofthe signs of Allah; whomsoever Allah guides, he is the rightlyguided one, and whomsoever He causes to err, you shall not findfor him any friend to lead (him) aright.
18/18 And you might think them awake while they were asleep and Weturned them about to the right and to the left, while their dog(lay) outstretching its paws at the entrance; if you looked atthem you would certainly turn back from them in flight, and youwould certainly be filled with awe because of them.
18/19 And thus did We rouse them that they might question eachother. A speaker among them said: How long have you tarried? Theysaid: We have tarried for a day or a part of a day. (Others)said: Your Lord knows best how long you have tarried. Now sendone of you with this silver (coin) of yours to the city, then lethim see which of them has purest food, so let him bring youprovision from it, and let him behave with gentleness, and by nomeans make your case known to any one:
18/20 For surely if they prevail against you they would stone youto death or force you back to their religion, and then you willnever succeed.
18/21 And thus did We make (men) to get knowledge of them that theymight know that Allah's promise is true and that as for the hourthere is no doubt about it. When they disputed among themselvesabout their affair and said: Erect an edifice over them-- theirLord best knows them. Those who prevailed in their affair said:We will certainly raise a masjid over them.
18/22 (Some) say: (They are) three, the fourth of them being theirdog; and (others) say: Five, the sixth of them being their dog,making conjectures at what is unknown; and (others yet) say:Seven, and the eighth of them is their dog. Say: My Lord bestknows their number, none knows them but a few; therefore contendnot in the matter of them but with an outward contention, and donot question concerning them any of them.
18/23 And do not say of anything: Surely I will do it tomorrow,
18/24 Unless Allah pleases; and remember your Lord when you forgetand say: Maybe my Lord will guide me to a nearer course to theright than this.
18/25 And they remained in their cave three hundred years and(some) add (another) nine.
18/26 Say: Allah knows best how long they remained; to Him are(known) the unseen things of the heavens and the earth; how clearHis sight and how clear His hearing! There is none to be aguardian for them besides Him, and He does not make any one Hisassociate in His Judgment.
18/27 And recite what has been revealed to you of the Book of yourLord, there is none who can alter His words; and you shall notfind any refuge besides Him.
18/28 And withhold yourself with those who call on their Lordmorning and evening desiring His goodwill, and let not your eyespass from them, desiring the beauties of this world's life; anddo not follow him whose heart We have made unmindful to Ourremembrance, and he follows his low desires and his case is onein which due bounds are exceeded.
18/29 And say: The truth is from your Lord, so let him who pleasebelieve, and let him who please disbelieve; surely We haveprepared for the iniquitous a fire, the curtains of which shallencompass them about; and if they cry for water, they shall begiven water like molten brass which will scald their faces; evilthe drink and ill the resting-place.
18/30 Surely (as for) those who believe and do good, We do notwaste the reward of him who does a good work.
18/31 These it is for whom are gardens of perpetuity beneath whichrivers flow, ornaments shall be given to them therein ofbracelets of gold, and they shall wear green robes of fine silkand thick silk brocade interwoven with gold, reclining therein onraised couches; excellent the recompense and goodly the restingplace.
18/32 And set forth to them a parable of two men; for one of themWe made two gardens of grape vines, and We surrounded them bothwith palms, and in the midst of them We made cornfields.
18/33 Both these gardens yielded their fruits, and failed not aughtthereof, and We caused a river to gush forth in their midst,
18/34 And he possessed much wealth; so he said to his companion,while he disputed with him: I have greater wealth than you, andam mightier in followers.
18/35 And he entered his garden while he was unjust to himself. Hesaid: I do not think that this will ever perish
18/36 And I do not think the hour will come, and even if I amreturned to my Lord I will most certainly find a returning placebetter than this.
18/37 His companion said to him while disputing with him: Do youdisbelieve in Him Who created you from dust, then from a smallseed, then He made you a perfect man?
18/38 But as for me, He, Allah, is my Lord, and I do not associateanyone with my Lord.
18/39 And wherefore did you not say when you entered your garden:It is as Allah has pleased, there is no power save in Allah? Ifyou consider me to be inferior to you in wealth and children,
18/40 Then maybe my Lord will give me what is better than yourgarden, and send on it a thunderbolt from heaven so that it shallbecome even ground without plant,
18/41 Or its waters should sink down into the ground so that youare unable to find it.
18/42 And his wealth was destroyed; so he began to wring his handsfor what he had spent on it, while it lay, having fallen downupon its roofs, and he said: Ah me! would that I had notassociated anyone with my Lord.
18/43 And he had no host to help him besides Allah nor could hedefend himself.
18/44 Here is protection only Allah's, the True One; He is best in(the giving of) reward and best in requiting.
18/45 And set forth to them parable of the life of this world: likewater which We send down from the cloud so the herbage of theearth becomes tangled on account of it, then it becomes drybroken into pieces which the winds scatter; and Allah is theholder of power over all things.
18/46 Wealth and children are an adornment of the life of thisworld; and the ever-abiding, the good works, are better with yourLord in reward and better in expectation.
18/47 And the day on which We will cause the mountains to pass awayand you will see the earth a levelled plain and We will gatherthem and leave not any one of them behind.
18/48 And they shall be brought before your Lord, standing inranks: Now certainly you have come to Us as We created you atfirst. Nay, you thought that We had not appointed to you a timeof the fulfillment of the promise.
18/49 And the Book shall be placed, then you will see the guiltyfearing from what is in it, and they will say: Ah! woe to us!what a book is this! it does not omit a small one nor a greatone, but numbers them (all); and what they had done they shallfind present (there); and your Lord does not deal unjustly withanyone.
18/50 And when We said to the angels: Make obeisance to Adam; theymade obeisance but Iblis (did it not). He was of the jinn, so hetransgressed the commandment of his Lord. What! would you thentake him and his offspring for friends rather than Me, and theyare your enemies? Evil is (this) change for the unjust.
18/51 I did not make them witnesses of the creation of the heavensand the earth, nor of the creation of their own souls; nor couldI take those who lead (others) astray for aiders.
18/52 And on the day when He shall say: Call on those whom youconsidered to be My associates. So they shall call on them, butthey shall not answer them, and We will cause a separationbetween them.
18/53 And the guilty shall see the fire, then they shall know thatthey are going to fall into it, and they shall not find a placeto which to turn away from it.
18/54 And certainly We have explained in this Quran every kind ofexample, and man is most of all given to contention.
18/55 And nothing prevents men from believing when the guidance comes tothem, and from asking forgiveness of their Lord, except that what happenedto the ancients should overtake them, or that the chastisement should comeface to face with them.
18/56 And We do not send messengers but as givers of good news andwarning, and those who disbelieve make a false contention thatthey may render null thereby the truth, and they take Mycommunications and that with which they are warned for a mockery.
18/57 And who is more unjust than he who is reminded of thecommunications of his Lord, then he turns away from them andforgets what his two hands have sent before? Surely We haveplaced veils over their hearts lest they should understand it anda heaviness in their ears; and if you call them to the guidance,they will not ever follow the right course in that case.
18/58 And your Lord is Forgiving, the Lord of Mercy; were He topunish them for what they earn, He would certainly have hastenedthe chastisement for them; but for them there is an appointedtime from which they shall not find a refuge.
18/59 And (as for) these towns, We destroyed them when they actedunjustly, and We have appointed a time for their destruction.
18/60 And when Musa said to his servant: I will not cease until Ireach the junction of the two rivers or I will go on for years.
18/61 So when they had reached the junction of the two (rivers)they forgot their fish, and it took its way into the sea, goingaway.
18/62 But when they had gone farther, he said to his servant: Bringto us our morning meal, certainly we have met with fatigue fromthis our journey.
18/63 He said: Did you see when we took refuge on the rock then Iforgot the fish, and nothing made me forget to speak of it butthe Shaitan, and it took its way into the river; what a wonder!
18/64 He said: This is what we sought for; so they returnedretracing their footsteps.
18/65 Then they found one from among Our servants whom We hadgranted mercy from Us and whom We had taught knowledge fromOurselves.
18/66 Musa said to him: Shall I follow you on condition that youshould teach me right knowledge of what you have been taught?
18/67 He said: Surely you cannot have patience with me
18/68 And how can you have patience in that of which you have notgot a comprehensive knowledge?
18/69 He said: If Allah pleases, you will find me patient and Ishall not disobey you in any matter.
18/70 He said: If you would follow me, then do not question meabout any thing until I myself speak to you about it
18/71 So they went (their way) until when they embarked in the boathe made a hole in it. (Musa) said: Have you made a hole in it todrown its inmates? Certainly you have done a grievous thing.
18/72 He said: Did I not say that you will not be able to havepatience with me?
18/73 He said: Blame me not for what I forgot, and do not constrainme to a difficult thing in my affair.
18/74 So they went on until, when they met a boy, he slew him.(Musa) said: Have you slain an innocent person otherwise than formanslaughter? Certainly you have done an evil thing.
18/75 He said: Did I not say to you that you will not be able tohave patience with me?
18/76 He said: If I ask you about anything after this, keep me notin your company; indeed you shall have (then) found an excuse inmy case.
18/77 So they went on until when they came to the people of a town,they asked them for food, but they refused to entertain them asguests. Then they found in it a wall which was on the point offalling, so he put it into a right state. (Musa) said: If you hadpleased, you might certainly have taken a recompense for it.
18/78 He said: This shall be separation between me and you; now Iwill inform you of the significance of that with which you couldnot have patience.
18/79 As for the boat, it belonged to (some) poor men who worked onthe river and I wished that I should damage it, and there wasbehind them a king who seized every boat by force.
18/80 And as for the boy, his parents were believers and we fearedlest he should make disobedience and ingratitude to come uponthem:
18/81 So we desired that their Lord might give them in his placeone better than him in purity and nearer to having compassion.
18/82 And as for the wall, it belonged to two orphan boys in thecity, and there was beneath it a treasure belonging to them, andtheir father was a righteous man; so your Lord desired that theyshould attain their maturity and take out their treasure, a mercyfrom your Lord, and I did not do it of my own accord. This is thesignificance of that with which you could not have patience.
18/83 And they ask you about Zulqarnain. Say: I will recite to youan account of him.
18/84 Surely We established him in the land and granted him meansof access to every thing.
18/85 So he followed a course.
18/86 Until when he reached the place where the sun set, he foundit going down into a black sea, and found by it a people. Wesaid: O Zulqarnain! either give them a chastisement or do them abenefit.
18/87 He said: As to him who is injust, we will chastise him, thenshall he be returned to his Lord, and He will chastise him withan exemplary chastisement:
18/88 And as for him who believes and does good, he shall have goodly reward,and We will speak to him an easy word of Our command.
18/89 Then he followed (another) course.
18/90 Until when he reached the land of the rising of the sun, hefound it rising on a people to whom We had given no shelter fromIt;
18/91 Even so! and We had a full knowledge of what he had.
18/92 Then he followed (another) course.
18/93 Until when he reached (a place) between the two mountains, hefound on that side of them a people who could hardly understand aword.
18/94 They said: O Zulqarnain! surely Gog and Magog make mischiefin the land. Shall we then pay you a tribute on condition thatyou should raise a barrier between us and them
18/95 He said: That in which my Lord has established me is better,therefore you only help me with workers, I will make a fortifiedbarrier between you and them;
18/96 Bring me blocks of iron; until when he had filled up thespace between the two mountain sides, he said: Blow, until whenhe had made it (as) fire, he said: Bring me molten brass which Imay pour over it.
18/97 So they were not able to scale it nor could they make a holein it.
18/98 He said: This is a mercy from my Lord, but when the promiseof my Lord comes to pass He will make it level with the ground,and the promise of my Lord is ever true.
18/99 And on that day We will leave a part of them in conflict withanother part, and the trumpet will be blown, so We will gatherthem all together;
18/100 And We will bring forth hell, exposed to view, on that daybefore the unbelievers.
18/101 They whose eyes were under a cover from My reminder and theycould not even hear.
18/102 What! do then those who disbelieve think that they can takeMy servants to be guardians besides Me? Surely We have preparedhell for the entertainment of the unbelievers.
18/103 Say: Shall We inform you of the greatest losers in (their)deeds?
18/104 (These are) they whose labor is lost in this world's lifeand they think that they are well versed in skill of the work ofhands.
18/105 These are they who disbelieve in the communications of theirLord and His meeting, so their deeds become null, and thereforeWe will not set up a balance for them on the day of resurrection.
18/106 Thus it is that their recompense is hell, because theydisbelieved and held My communications and My messengers inmockery.
18/107 Surely (as for) those who believe and do good deeds, theirplace of entertainment shall be the gardens of paradise,
18/108 Abiding therein; they shall not desire removal from them.
18/109 Say: If the sea were ink for the words of my Lord, the seawould surely be consumed before the words of my Lord areexhausted, though We were to bring the like of that (sea) to add
18/110 Say: I am only a mortal like you; it is revealed to me thatyour god is one Allah, therefore whoever hopes to meet his Lord, heshould do good deeds, and not join any one in the service of hisLord.
