31/1 Alif Lam Mim.
31/2 These are verses of the Book of Wisdom
31/3 A guidance and a mercy for the doers of goodness,
31/4 Those who keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate and theyare certain of the hereafter.
31/5 These are on a guidance from their Lord, and these arethey who are successful:
31/6 And of men is he who takes instead frivolous discourse tolead astray from Allah's path without knowledge, and to takeit for a mockery; these shall have an abasing chastisement.
31/7 And when Our communications are recited to him, he turnsback proudly, as if he had not heard them, as though in hisears were a heaviness, therefore announce to him a painfulchastisement.
31/8 (As for) those who believe and do good, they shall surelyhave gardens of bliss,
31/9 Abiding in them; the promise of Allah; (a) true(promise), and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
31/10 He created the heavens without pillars as you see them,and put mountains upon the earth lest it might convulse withyou, and He spread in it animals of every kind; and We sentdown water from the cloud, then caused to grow therein(vegetation) of every noble kind.
31/11 This is Allah's creation, but show Me what those besidesHim have created. Nay, the unjust are in manifest error
31/12 And certainly We gave wisdom to Luqman, saying: Begrateful to Allah. And whoever is grateful, he is on!ygrateful for his own soul; and whoever is ungrateful, thensurely Allah is Self-sufficient, Praised.
31/13 And when Luqman said to his son while he admonished him:O my son! do not associate aught with Allah; most surelypolytheism is a grievous iniquity--
31/14 And We have enjoined man in respect of his parents-- hismother bears him with faintings upon faintings and hisweaning takes two years-- saying: Be grateful to Me and toboth your parents; to Me is the eventual coming.
31/15 And if they contend with you that you should associatewith Me what you have no knowledge of, do not obey them, andkeep company with them in this world kindly, and follow theway of him who turns to Me, then to Me is your return, thenwill I inform you of what you did--
31/16 O my son! surely if it is the very weight of the grainof a mustard-seed, even though it is in (the heart of) rock,or (high above) in the heaven or (deep down) in the earth,Allah will bring it (to light); surely Allah is Knower ofsubtleties, Aware;
31/17 O my son! keep up prayer and enjoin the good and forbidthe evil, and bear patiently that which befalls you; surelythese acts require courage;
31/18 And do not turn your face away from people in contempt,nor go about in the land exulting overmuch; surely Allahdoes not love any self-conceited boaster;
31/19 And pursue the right course in your going about andlower your voice; surely the most hateful of voices isbraying of the asses.
31/20 Do you not see that Allah has made what is in theheavens and what is in the earth subservient to you, andmade complete to you His favors outwardly and inwardly? Andamong men is he who disputes in respect of Allah thoughhaving no knowledge nor guidance, nor a book giving light.
31/21 And when it is said to them: Follow what Allah hasrevealed, they say: Nay, we follow that on which we foundour fathers. What! though the Shaitan calls them to thechastisement of the burning fire!
31/22 And whoever submits himself wholly to Allah and he isthe doer of good (to others), he indeed has taken hold ofthe firmest thing upon which one can lay hold; and Allah'sis the end of affairs.
31/23 And whoever disbelieves, let not his disbelief grieveyou; to Us is their return, then will We inform them of whatthey did surely Allah is the Knower of what is in thebreasts.
31/24 We give them to enjoy a little, then will We drive themto a severe chastisement.
31/25 And if you ask them who created the heavens and theearth, they will certainly say: Allah. Say: (All) praise isdue to Allah; nay! most of them do not know.
31/26 What is in the heavens and the earth is Allah's; surelyAllah is the Self-sufficient, the Praised.
31/27 And were every tree that is in the earth (made into)pens and the sea (to supply it with ink), with seven moreseas to increase it, the words of Allah would not come to anend; surely Allah is Mighty, Wise.
31/28 Neither your creation nor your raising is anything butas a single soul; surely Allah is Hearing, Seeing.
31/29 Do you not see that Allah makes the night to enter intothe day, and He makes the day to enter into the night, andHe has made the sun and the moon subservient (to you); eachpursues its course till an appointed time; and that Allah isAware of what you do?
31/30 This is because Allah is the Truth, and that which theycall upon besides Him is the falsehood, and that Allah isthe High, the Great.
31/31 Do you not see that the ships run on in the sea byAllah's favor that He may show you of His signs? Most surelythere are signs in this for every patient endurer, gratefulone.
31/32 And when a wave like mountains covers them they callupon Allah, being sincere to Him in obedience, but when Hebrings them safe to the land, some of them follow the middlecourse; and none denies Our signs but every perfidious,ungrateful one.
31/33 O people! guard against (the punishment of) your Lordand dread the day when a father shall not make anysatisfaction for his son, nor shall the child be the makerof any satisfaction for his father; surely the promise ofAllah is true, therefore let not this world's life deceiveyou, nor let the archdeceiver deceive you in respect ofAllah.
31/34 Surely Allah is He with Whom is the knowledge of thehour, and He sends down the rain and He knows what is in thewombs; and no one knows what he shall earn on the morrow;and no one knows in what land he shall die; surely Allah isKnowing, Aware.
