5/1 O you who believe! fulfill the obligations. The cattle quadrupedsare allowed to you except that which is recited to you, notviolating the prohibition against game when you are enteringupon the performance of the pilgrimage; surely Allah orders whatHe desires.
5/2 O you who believe! do not violate the signs appointed byAllah nor the sacred month, nor (interfere with) the offerings, northe sacrificial animals with garlands, nor those going to the sacredhouse seeking the grace and pleasure of their Lord; and when youare free from the obligations of the pilgrimage, then hunt, and letnot hatred of a people-- because they hindered you from theSacred Masjid-- incite you to exceed the limits, and help oneanother in goodness and piety, and do not help one another in sinand aggression; and be careful of (your duty to) Allah; surelyAllah is severe in requiting (evil).
5/3 Forbidden to you is that which dies of itself, and blood, andflesh of swine, and that on which any other name than that ofAllah has been invoked, and the strangled (animal) and thatbeaten to death, and that killed by a fall and that killed by beingsmitten with the horn, and that which wild beasts have eaten,except what you slaughter, and what is sacrificed on stones set up(for idols) and that you divide by the arrows; that is a transgression.This day have those who disbelieve despaired of yourreligion, so fear them not, and fear Me. This day have I perfectedfor you your religion and completed My favor on you andchosen for you Islam as a religion; but whoever is compelledby hunger, not inclining willfully to sin, then surely Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
5/4 They ask you as to what is allowed to them. Say: The goodthings are allowed to you, and what you have taught the beastsand birds of prey, training them to hunt-- you teach them ofwhat Allah has taught you-- so eat of that which they catch foryou and mention the name of Allah over it; and be careful of(your duty to) Allah; surely Allah is swift in reckoning.
5/5 This day (all) the good things are allowed to you; and thefood of those who have been given the Book is lawful for youand your food is lawful for them; and the chaste from among thebelieving women and the chaste from among those who havebeen given the Book before you (are lawful for you); when youhave given them their dowries, taking (them) in marriage, notfornicating nor taking them for paramours in secret; and whoeverdenies faith, his work indeed is of no account, and in thehereafter he shall be one of the losers.
5/6 O you who believe! when you rise up to prayer, wash yourfaces and your hands as far as the elbows, and wipe your headsand your feet to the ankles; and if you are under an obligation toperform a total ablution, then wash (yourselves) and if you aresick or on a journey, or one of you come from the privy, or youhave touched the women, and you cannot find water, betakeyourselves to pure earth and wipe your faces and your handstherewith, Allah does not desire to put on you any difficulty, butHe wishes to purify you and that He may complete His favor onyou, so that you may be grateful.
5/7 And remember the favor of Allah on you and His covenantwith which He bound you firmly, when you said: We have heardand we obey, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, surely Allahknows what is in the breasts.
5/8 O you who believe! Be upright for Allah, bearers of witnesswith justice, and let not hatred of a people incite you not to actequitably; act equitably, that is nearer to piety, and he careful of(your duty to) Allah; surely Allah is Aware of what you do.
5/9 Allah has promised to those who believe and do gooddeeds (that) they shall have forgiveness and a mighty reward.
5/10 And (as for) those who disbelieve and reject our communications,these are the companions of the name.
5/11 O you who believe! remember Allah's favor on you whena people had determined to stretch forth their hands towardsyou, but He withheld their hands from you, and be careful of(your duty to) Allah; and on Allah let the believers rely.
5/12 And certainly Allah made a covenant with the children ofIsrael, and We raised up among them twelve chieftains; andAllah said: Surely I am with you; if you keep up prayer and paythe poor-rate and believe in My messengers and assist them andoffer to Allah a goodly gift, I will most certainly cover your evildeeds, and I will most certainly cause you to enter into gardensbeneath which rivers flow, but whoever disbelieves from amongyou after that, he indeed shall lose the right way.
5/13 But on account of their breaking their covenant We cursedthem and made their hearts hard; they altered the words fromtheir places and they neglected a portion of what they werereminded of; and you shall always discover treachery in themexcepting a few of them; so pardon them and turn away; surelyAllah loves those who do good (to others).
5/14 And with those who say, We are Christians, We made acovenant, but they neglected a portion of what they were remindedof, therefore We excited among them enmity and hatredto the day of resurrection; and Allah will inform them of whatthey did.
5/15 O followers of the Book! indeed Our Messenger has come toyou making clear to you much of what you concealed of theBook and passing over much; indeed, there has come to youlight and a clear Book from Allah;
5/16 With it Allah guides him who will follow His pleasure intothe ways of safety and brings them out of utter darkness intolight by His will and guides them to the right path.
5/17 Certainly they disbelieve who say: Surely, Allah-- He isthe Messiah, son of Marium. Say: Who then could controlanything as against Allah when He wished to destroy the Messiahson of Marium and his mother and all those on the earth? AndAllah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth and what isbetween them; He creates what He pleases; and Allah has powerover all things,
5/18 And the Jews and the Christians say: We are the sons ofAllah and His beloved ones. Say: Why does He then chastise youfor your faults? Nay, you are mortals from among those whomHe has created, He forgives whom He pleases and chastiseswhom He pleases; and Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens andthe earth and what is between them, and to Him is the eventualcoming.
5/19 O followers of the Book! indeed Our Messenger has come toyou explaining to you after a cessation of the (mission of the)messengers, lest you say: There came not to us a giver of good newsor a warner, so indeed there has come to you a giver of goodnews and a warner; and Allah has power over all things.
5/20 And when Musa said to his people: O my people! rememberthe favor of Allah upon you when He raised prophets amongyou and made you kings and gave you what He had not given toany other among the nations.
5/21 O my people! enter the holy land which Allah has prescribedfor you and turn not on your backs for then you will turnback losers.
5/22 They said: O Musa! surely there is a strong race in it, andwe will on no account enter it until they go out from it, so if theygo out from it, then surely we will enter.
5/23 Two men of those who feared, upon both of whom Allahhad bestowed a favor, said: Enter upon them by the gate, forwhen you have entered it you shall surely be victorious, and onAllah should you rely if you are believers.
5/24 They said: O Musa! we shall never enter it so long as theyare in it; go therefore you and your Lord, then fight you bothsurely we will here sit down.
5/25 He said: My Lord! Surely I have no control (upon any)but my own self and my brother; therefore make a separationbetween us and the nation of transgressors.
5/26 He said: So it shall surely be forbidden to them for fortyyears, they shall wander about in the land, therefore do notgrieve for the nation of transgressors.
5/27 And relate to them the story of the two sons of Adam withtruth when they both offered an offering, but it was acceptedfrom one of them and was not accepted from the other. He said: II will most certainly slay you. (The other) said: Allah onlyaccepts from those who guard (against evil).
5/28 If you will stretch forth your hand towards me to slay me,I am not one to stretch forth my hand towards you to slay yousurely I fear Allah, the Lord of the worlds:
5/29 Surely I wish that you should bear the sin committedagainst me and your own sin, and so you would be of theinmates of the fire, and this is the recompense of the unjust.
5/30 Then his mind facilitated to him the slaying of his brotherso he slew him; then he became one of the losers
5/31 Then Allah sent a crow digging up the earth so that hemight show him how he should cover the dead body of hisbrother. He said: Woe me! do I lack the strength that I should belike this crow and cover the dead body of my brother? So hebecame of those who regret.
5/32 For this reason did We prescribe to the children of Israelthat whoever slays a soul, unless it be for manslaughter or formischief in the land, it is as though he slew all men; and whoeverkeeps it alive, it is as though he kept alive all men; and certainlyOur messengers came to them with clear arguments, but even afterthat many of them certainly act extravagantly in the land.
5/33 The punishment of those who wage war against Allah andHis messenger and strive to make mischief in the land is only this,that they should be murdered or crucified or their hands andtheir feet should be cut off on opposite sides or they should beimprisoned; this shall be as a disgrace for them in this world, andin the hereafter they shall have a grievous chastisement,
5/34 Except those who repent before you have them in yourpower; so know that Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/35 O you who believe! be careful of (your duty to) Allah andseek means of nearness to Him and strive hard in His way thatyou may be successful.
5/36 Surely (as for) those who disbelieve, even if they had whatis in the earth, all of it, and the like of it with it, that they mightransom themselves with it from the punishment of the day ofresurrection, it shall not be accepted from them, and they shallhave a painful punishment.
5/37 They would desire to go forth from the fire, and they shallnot go forth from it, and they shall have a lasting punishment.
5/38 And (as for) the man who steals and the woman whosteals, cut off their hands as a punishment for what they haveearned, an exemplary punishment from Allah; and Allah isMighty, Wise.
5/39 But whoever repents after his iniquity and reforms (himself),then surely Allah will turn to him (mercifully); surely Allahis Forgiving, Merciful.
5/40 Do you not know that Allah-- His is the kingdom of theheavens and the earth; He chastises whom He pleases; and forgiveswhom He pleases and Allah has power over all things.
5/41 O Messenger! let not those grieve you who strive together inhastening to unbelief from among those who say with theirmouths: We believe, and their hearts do not believe, and fromamong those who are Jews; they are listeners for the sake of a lie,listeners for another people who have not come to you; they alterthe words from their places, saying: If you are given this, take it,and if you are not given this, be cautious; and as for him whosetemptation Allah desires, you cannot control anything for himwith Allah. Those are they for whom Allah does not desire thatHe should purify their hearts; they shall have disgrace in thisworld, and they shall have a grievous chastisement in the hereafter.
5/42 (They are) listeners of a lie, devourers of what is forbidden;therefore if they come to you, judge between them orturn aside from them, and if you turn aside from them, they shallnot harm you in any way; and if you judge, judge between themwith equity; surely Allah loves those who judge equitably.
5/43 And how do they make you a judge and they have theTaurat wherein is Allah's judgment? Yet they turn back afterthat, and these are not the believers.
5/44 Surely We revealed the Taurat in which was guidance andlight; with it the prophets who submitted themselves (to Allah)judged (matters) for those who were Jews, and the masters ofDivine knowledge and the doctors, because they were requiredto guard (part) of the Book of Allah, and they were witnessesthereof; therefore fear not the people and fear Me, and do nottake a small price for My communications; and whoever did notjudge by what Allah revealed, those are they that are the unbelievers.
5/45 And We prescribed to them in it that life is for life, andeye for eye, and nose for nose, and ear for ear, and tooth fortooth, and (that there is) reprisal in wounds; but he who foregoesit, it shall be an expiation for him; and whoever did not judge bywhat Allah revealed, those are they that are the unjust.
5/46 And We sent after them in their footsteps Isa, son ofMarium, verifying what was before him of the Taurat and Wegave him the Injeel in which was guidance and light, and verifyingwhat was before it of Taurat and a guidance and an admonitionfor those who guard (against evil).
5/47 And the followers of the Injeel should have judged bywhat Allah revealed in it; and whoever did not judge by whatAllah revealed, those are they that are the transgressors.
5/48 And We have revealed to you the Book with the truth,verifying what is before it of the Book and a guardian over it,therefore judge between them by what Allah has revealed, anddo not follow their low desires (to turn away) from the truththat has come to you; for every one of you did We appoint a lawand a way, and if Allah had pleased He would have made you(all) a single people, but that He might try you in what He gaveyou, therefore strive with one another to hasten to virtuousdeeds; to Allah is your return, of all (of you), so He will let youknow that in which you differed;
5/49 And that you should judge between them by what Allahhas revealed, and do not follow their low desires, and be cautiousof them, lest they seduce you from part of what Allah hasrevealed to you; but if they turn back, then know that Allahdesires to afflict them on account of some of their faults; andmost surely many of the people are transgressors.
5/50 Is it then the judgment of (the times of) ignorance thatthey desire? And who is better than Allah to judge for a peoplewho are sure?
5/51 O you who believe! do not take the Jews and the Christiansfor friends; they are friends of each other; and whoever amongstyou takes them for a friend, then surely he is one of them; surelyAllah does not guide the unjust people.
5/52 But you will see those in whose hearts is a disease hasteningtowards them, saying: We fear lest a calamity should befallus; but it may be that Allah will bring the victory or a punishment from Himself, so that they shall be regretting on account ofwhat they hid in their souls.
5/53 And those who believe will say: Are these they who sworeby Allah with the most forcible of their oaths that they weremost surely with you? Their deeds shall go for nothing, so theyshall become losers.
5/54 O you who believe! whoever from among you turns backfrom his religion, then Allah will bring a people, He shall lovethem and they shall love Him, lowly before the believers, mightyagainst the unbelievers, they shall strive hard in Allah's way andshall not fear the censure of any censurer; this is Allah's Face,He gives it to whom He pleases, and Allah is Ample-giving, Knowing.
5/55 Only Allah is your Vali and His Messenger and those whobelieve, those who keep up prayers and pay the poor-rate whilethey bow.
5/56 And whoever takes Allah and His messenger and those whobelieve for a guardian, then surely the party of Allah are theythat shall be triumphant.
5/57 O you who believe! do not take for guardians those whotake your religion for a mockery and a joke, from among thosewho were given the Book before you and the unbelievers; and becareful of (your duty to) Allah if you are believers.
5/58 And when you call to prayer they make it a mockery and ajoke; this is because they are a people who do not understand.
5/59 Say: O followers of the Book! do you find fault with us(for aught) except that we believe in Allah and in what has beenrevealed to us and what was revealed before, and that most ofyou are transgressors?
5/60 Say: Shall I inform you of (him who is) worse than this inretribution from Allah? (Worse is he) whom Allah has cursedand brought His wrath upon, and of whom He made apes andswine, and he who served the Shaitan; these are worse in placeand more erring from the straight path.
5/61 And when they come to you, they say: We believe; andindeed they come in with unbelief and indeed they go forth withit; and Allah knows best what they concealed.
5/62 And you will see many of them striving with one anotherto hasten in sin and exceeding the limits, and their eating of whatis unlawfully acquired; certainly evil is that which they do.
5/63 Why do not the learned men and the doctors of lawprohibit them from their speaking of what is sinful and theireating of what is unlawfully acquired? Certainly evil is thatwhich they work.
5/64 And the Jews say: The hand of Allah is tied up! Theirhands shall be shackled and they shall be cursed for what theysay. Nay, both His hands are spread out, He expends as Hepleases; and what has been revealed to you from your Lord willcertainly make many of them increase in inordinacy and unbelief;and We have put enmity and hatred among them till the day ofresurrection; whenever they kindle a fire for war Allah puts itout, and they strive to make mischief in the land; and Allah doesnot love the mischief-makers.
5/65 And if the followers of the Book had believed and guarded(against evil) We would certainly have covered their evil deedsand We would certainly have made them enter gardens of bliss
5/66 And if they had kept up the Taurat and the Injeel and thatwhich was revealed to them from their Lord, they would certainlyhave eaten from above them and from beneath their feetthere is a party of them keeping to the moderate course, and (asfor) most of them, evil is that which they do
5/67 O Messenger! deliver what bas been revealed to you fromyour Lord; and if you do it not, then you have not delivered Hismessage, and Allah will protect you from the people; surelyAllah will not guide the unbelieving people.
5/68 Say: O followers of the Book! you follow no good till youkeep up the Taurat and the Injeel and that which is revealed toyou from your Lord; and surely that which has been revealed toyou from your Lord shall make many of them increase ininordinacy and unbelief; grieve not therefore for the unbelievingpeople.
5/69 Surely those who believe and those who are Jews and theSabians and the Christians whoever believes in Allah and thelast day and does good-- they shall have no fear nor shall theygrieve.
5/70 Certainly We made a covenant with the children of Israeland We sent to them messengers; whenever there came to them anmessenger with what that their souls did not desire, some (of them)did they call liars and some they slew.
5/71 And they thought that there would be no affliction, sothey became blind and deaf; then Allah turned to them mercifully,but many of them became blind and deaf; and Allah is wellseeing what they do.
5/72 Certainly they disbelieve who say: Surely Allah, He is theMessiah, son of Marium; and the Messiah said: O Children ofIsrael! serve Allah, my Lord and your Lord. Surely whoeverassociates (others) with Allah, then Allah has forbidden to himthe garden, and his abode is the fire; and there shall be nohelpers for the unjust.
5/73 Certainly they disbelieve who say: Surely Allah is thethird (person) of the three; and there is no god but the one Allah,and if they desist not from what they say, a painful chastisementshall befall those among them who disbelieve.
5/74 Will they not then turn to Allah and ask His forgiveness?And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/75 The Messiah, son of Marium is but a messenger; messengersbefore him have indeed passed away; and his mother was atruthful woman; they both used to eat food. See how We makethe communications clear to them, then behold, how they areturned away.
5/76 Say: Do you serve besides Allah that which does notcontrol for you any harm, or any profit? And Allah-- He is theHearing, the Knowing.
5/77 Say: O followers of the Book! be not unduly immoderatein your religion, and do not follow the low desires of people whowent astray before and led many astray and went astray from theright path.
5/78 Those who disbelieved from among the children of Israelwere cursed by the tongue of Dawood and Isa, son of Marium;this was because they disobeyed and used to exceed the limit.
5/79 They used not to forbid each other the hateful things(which) they did; certainly evil was that which they did.
5/80 You will see many of them befriending those who disbelieve;certainly evil is that which their souls have sent beforefor them, that Allah became displeased with them and in chastisementshall they abide.
5/81 And had they believed in Allah and the prophet and whatwas revealed to him, they would not have taken them for friendsbut! most of them are transgressors.
5/82 Certainly you will find the most violent of people inenmity for those who believe (to be) the Jews and those who arepolytheists, and you will certainly find the nearest in friendshipto those who believe (to be) those who say: We are Christians;this is because there are priests and monks among them andbecause they do not behave proudly.
5/83 And when they hear what has been revealed to the messengeryou will see their eyes overflowing with tears on account of thetruth that they recognize; they say: Our Lord! we believe, sowrite us down with the witnesses (of truth).
5/84 And what (reason) have we that we should not believe inAllah and in the truth that has come to us, while we earnestlydesire that our Lord should cause us to enter with the goodpeople?
5/85 Therefore Allah rewarded them on account of what theysaid, with gardens in which rivers flow to abide in them; and thisis the reward of those who do good (to others).
5/86 And (as for) those who disbelieve and reject Our communications,these are the companions of the flame.
5/87 O you who believe! do not forbid (yourselves) the goodthings which Allah has made lawful for you and do not exceedthe limits; surely Allah does not love those who exceed thelimits.
5/88 And eat of the lawful and good (things) that Allah hasgiven you, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, in Whom youbelieve.
5/89 Allah does not call you to account for what is vain in youroaths, but He calls you to account for the making of deliberateoaths; so its expiation is the feeding of ten poor men out of themiddling (food) you feed your families with, or their clothing, orthe freeing of a neck; but whosoever cannot find (means) thenfasting for three days; this is the expiation of your oaths whenyou swear; and guard your oaths. Thus does Allah make clear toyou His communications, that you may be Fateful.
5/90 O you who believe! intoxicants and games of chance and(sacrificing to) stones set up and (dividing by) arrows are only anuncleanness, the Shaitan's work; shun it therefore that you maybe successful.
5/91 The Shaitan only desires to cause enmity and hatred tospring in your midst by means of intoxicants and games ofchance, and to keep you off from the remembrance of Allah andfrom prayer. Will you then desist?
5/92 And obey Allah and obey the messenger and be cautious; butif you turn back, then know that only a clear deliverance of themessage is (incumbent) on Our messenger.
5/93 On those who believe and do good there is no blame forwhat they eat, when they are careful (of their duty) and believeand do good deeds, then they are careful (of their duty) andbelieve, then they are careful (of their duty) and do good (toothers), and Allah loves those who do good (to others).
5/94 O you who believe! Allah will certainly try you in respectof some game which your hands and your lances can reach, thatAllah might know who fears Him in secret; but whoever exceedsthe limit after this, he shall have a painful punishment.
5/95 O you who believe! do not kill game while you are onpilgrimage, and whoever among you shall kill it intentionally,the compensation (of it) is the like of what he killed, from thecattle, as two just persons among you shall judge, as an offeringto be brought to the Kaaba or the expiation (of it) is the feedingof the poor or the equivalent of it in fasting, that he may taste theunwholesome result of his deed; Allah has pardoned what isgone by; and whoever returns (to it), Allah will inflict retributionon him; and Allah is Mighty, Lord of Retribution.
5/96 Lawful to you is the game of the sea and its food, aprovision for you and for the travellers, and the game of the landis forbidden to you so long as you are on pilgrimage, and becareful of (your duty to) Allah, to Whom you shall be gathered.
5/97 Allah has made the Kaaba, the sacred house, a maintenancefor the people, and the sacred month and the offerings andthe sacrificial animals with garlands; this is that you may knowthat Allah knows whatever is in the heavens and whatever is inthe earth, and that Allah is the Knower of all things.
5/98 Know that Allah is severe in requiting (evil) and thatAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
5/99 Nothing is (incumbent) on the Messenger but to deliver (themessage), and Allah knows what you do openly and what youhide.
5/100 Say: The bad and the good are not equal, though theabundance of the bad may please you; so be careful of (yourduty to) Allah, O men of understanding, that you may besuccessful.
5/101 O you who believe! do not put questions about thingswhich if declared to you may trouble you, and if you questionabout them when the Quran is being revealed, they shall bedeclared to you; Allah pardons this, and Allah is Forgiving,Forbearing.
5/102 A people before you indeed asked such questions, andthen became disbelievers on account of them.
5/103 Allah has not ordained (the making of) a bahirah or asaibah or a wasilah or a hami but those who disbelieve fabricatea lie against Allah, and most of them do not understand.
5/104 And when it is said to them, Come to what Allah hasrevealed and to the Messenger, they say: That on which we foundour fathers is sufficient for us. What! even though their fathersknew nothing and did not follow the right way.
5/105 O you who believe! take care of your souls; he who errscannot hurt you when you are on the right way; to Allah is yourreturn, of all (of you), so He will inform you of what you did.
5/106 O you who believe! call to witness between you whendeath draws nigh to one of you, at the time of making the will,two just persons from among you, or two others from amongothers than you, if you are travelling in the land and the calamityof death befalls you; the two (witnesses) you should detain afterthe prayer; then if you doubt (them), they shall both swear byAllah, (saying): We will not take for it a price, though there be arelative, and we will not hide the testimony of Allah for thencertainly we should be among the sinners.
5/107 Then if it becomes known that they both have beenguilty of a sin, two others shall stand up in their place fromamong those who have a claim against them, the two nearest inkin; so they two should swear by Allah: Certainly our testimonyis truer than the testimony of those two, and we have notexceeded the limit, for then most surely we should be of theunjust.
5/108 This is more proper in order that they should give testimonytruly or fear that other oaths be given after their oaths;and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, and hear; and Allah doesnot guide the transgressing people.
5/109 On the day when Allah will assemble the messengers, thensay: What answer were you given? They shall say: We have noknowledge, surely Thou art the great Knower of the unseenthings.
5/110 When Allah will say: O Isa son of Marium! RememberMy favor on you and on your mother, when I strengthened you Iwith the holy Spirit, you spoke to the people in the cradle and Iwhen of old age, and when I taught you the Book and thewisdom and the Taurat and the Injeel; and when you determinedout of clay a thing like the form of a bird by My permission, thenyou breathed into it and it became a bird by My permission, andyou healed the blind and the leprous by My permission; andwhen you brought forth the dead by My permission; and when Iwithheld the children of Israel from you when you came to themwith clear arguments, but those who disbelieved among themsaid: This is nothing but clear enchantment.
5/111 And when I revealed to the disciples, saying, Believe inMe and My messenger, they said: We believe and bear witness thatwe submit (ourselves).
5/112 When the disciples said: O Isa son of Marium! will yourLord consent to send down to us food from heaven? He said: Becareful of (your duty to) Allah if you are believers.
5/113 They said: We desire that we should eat of it and that ourhearts should be at rest, and that we may know that you haveindeed spoken the truth to us and that we may be of the witnessesto it.
5/114 Isa the son of Marium said: O Allah, our Lord! send idown to us food from heaven which should be to us an ever-recurringhappiness, to the first of us and to the last of us, and asign from Thee, and grant us means of subsistence, and Thou artthe best of the Providers.
5/115 Allah said: Surely I will send it down to you, but whoevershall disbelieve afterwards from among you, surely I willchastise him with a chastisement with which I will not chastise,anyone among the nations.
5/116 And when Allah will say: O Isa son of Marium! did yousay to men, Take me and my mother for two gods besides Allahhe will say: Glory be to Thee, it did not befit me that I should saywhat I had no right to (say); if I had said it, Thou wouldst indeedhave known it; Thou knowest what is in my mind, and I do notknow what is in Thy mind, surely Thou art the great Knower ofthe unseen things.
5/117 I did not say to them aught save what Thou didst enjoinme with: That serve Allah, my Lord and your Lord, and I was awitness of them so long as I was among them, but when Thoudidst cause me to die, Thou wert the watcher over them, andThou art witness of all things.
5/118 If Thou shouldst chastise them, then surely they are Thyservants; and if Thou shouldst forgive them, then surely Thouart the Mighty, the Wise.
5/119 Allah will say: This is the day when their truth shallbenefit the truthful ones; they shall have gardens beneath whichrivers flow to abide in them for ever: Allah is well pleased withthem and they are well pleased with Allah; this is the mightyachievement.
5/120 Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth andwhat is in them; and He has power over all things.
