58/1 Allah indeed knows the plea of her who pleads with youabout her husband and complains to Allah, and Allah knowsthe contentions of both of you; surely Allah is Hearing,Seeing.
58/2 (As for) those of you who put away their wives bylikening their backs to the backs of their mothers, they arenot their mothers; their mothers are no others than thosewho gave thembirth; and most surely they utter a hateful word and afalsehood and most surely Allah is Pardoning, Forgiving.
58/3 And (as for) those who put away their wives by likeningtheir backs to the backs of their mothers then would recallwhat they said, they should free a captive before they toucheach other; to that you are admonished (to conform); andAllah is Aware of what you do.
58/4 But whoever has not the means, let him fast for twomonths successively before they touch each other; then asfor him who is not able, let him feed sixty needy ones; thatis in order that you may have faith in Allah and HisMessenger, and these are Allah's limits, and the unbelieversshall have a painful punishment.
58/5 Surely those who act in opposition to Allah and HisMessenger shall be laid down prostrate as those before themwere laid down prostrate; and indeed We have revealed clearcommunications, and the unbelievers shall have an abasingchastisement.
58/6 On the day when Allah will raise them up all together,then inform them of what they did: Allah has recorded itwhile they have forgotten it; and Allah is a witness of allthings.
58/7 Do you not see that Allah knows whatever is in theheavens and whatever is in the earth? Nowhere is there asecret counsel between three persons but He is the fourth ofthem, nor (between) five but He is the sixth of them, norless than that nor more but He is with them wheresoever theyare; then He will inform them of what they did on the day ofresurrection: surely Allah is Cognizant of all things.
58/8 Have you not seen those who are forbidden secretcounsels, then they return to what they are forbidden, andthey hold secret counsels for sin and revolt anddisobedience to the Messenger, and when they come to you theygreet you with a greeting with which Allah does not greetyou, and they say in themselves: Why does not Allah punishus for what we say? Hell is enough for them; they shallenter it, and evil is the resort.
58/9 O you who believe! when you confer together in private,do not give to each other counsel of sin and revolt anddisobedience to the Messenger, and give to each other counselof goodness and guarding (against evil); and be careful of(your duty to) Allah, to Whom you shall be gatheredtogether.
58/10 Secret counsels are only (the work) of the Shaitan thathe may cause to grieve those who believe, and he cannot hurtthem in the least except with Allah's permission, and onAllah let the believers rely.
58/11 O you who believe! when it is said to you, Make room in(your) assemblies, then make ample room, Allah will give youample, and when it is said: Rise up, then rise up. Allahwill exalt those of you who believe, and those who are givenknowledge, in high degrees; and Allah is Aware of what youdo.
58/12 O you who believe! when you consult the Messenger, thenoffer something in charity before your consultation; that isbetter for you and purer; but if you do not find, thensurely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
58/13 Do you fear that you will not (be able to) give incharity before your consultation? So when you do not do itand Allah has turned to you (mercifully), then keep upprayer and pay the poor-rate and obey Allah and His Messenger;and Allah is Aware of what you do.
58/14 Have you not seen those who befriend a people with whomAllah is wroth? They are neither of you nor of them, andthey swear falsely while they know.
58/15 Allah has prepared for them a severe punishment; surelywhat they do is evil.
58/16 They make their oaths to serve as a cover so they turnaway from Allah's way; therefore they shall have an abasingchastisement.
58/17 Neither their wealth nor their children shall avail themaught against Allah; they are the inmates of the fire,therein they shall abide.
58/18 On the day that Allah will raise them up all, then theywill swear to Him as they swear to you, and they think thatthey have something; now surely they are the liars.
58/19 The Shaitan has gained the mastery over them, so he hasmade them forget the remembrance of Allah; they are theShaitan's party; now surely the Shaitan's party are thelosers.
58/20 Surely (as for) those who are in opposition to Allah andHis Messenger; they shall be among the most abased.
58/21 Allah has written down: I will most certainly prevail, Iand My messengers; surely Allah is Strong, Mighty.
58/22 You shall not find a people who believe in Allah and thelatter day befriending those who act in opposition to Allahand His Messenger, even though they were their (own) fathers,or their sons, or their brothers, or their kinsfolk; theseare they into whose hearts He has impressed faith, and whomHe has strengthened with an inspiration from Him: and Hewill cause them to enter gardens beneath which rivers flow,abiding therein; Allah is well-pleased with them and theyare well-pleased with Him these are Allah's party: nowsurely the party of Allah are the successful ones.
