67/1 Blessed is He in Whose hand is the kingdom, and He haspower over all things,
67/2 Who created death and life that He may try you-- which ofyou is best in deeds; and He is the Mighty, the Forgiving,
67/3 Who created the seven heavens one above another; you seeno incongruity in the creation of the Beneficent Allah; thenlook again, can you see any disorder?
67/4 Then turn back the eye again and again; your look shall'~ come back to you confused while it is fatigued.
67/5 And certainly We have adorned this lower heaven withlamps and We have made these missiles for the Shaitans, andWe have prepared for them the chastisement of burning.
67/6 And for those who disbelieve in their Lord is thepunishment of hell, and evil is the resort.
67/7 When they shall be cast therein, they shall hear a loudmoaning of it as it heaves,
67/8 Almost bursting for fury. Whenever a group is cast intoit, its keeper shall ask them: Did there not come to you awarner?
67/9 They shall say: Yea! indeed there came to us a warner,but we rejected (him) and said: Allah has not revealedanything, you are only in a great error.
67/10 And they shall say: Had we but listened or pondered, weshould not have been among the inmates of the burning fire.
67/11 So they shall acknowledge their sins, but far will be(forgiveness) from the inmates of the burning fire.
67/12 (As for) those who fear their Lord in secret, they shallsurely have forgiveness and a great reward.
67/13 And conceal your word or manifest it; surely He isCognizant of what is in the hearts.
67/14 Does He not know, Who created? And He is the Knower ofthe subtleties, the Aware.
67/15 He it is Who made the earth smooth for you, therefore goabout in the spacious sides thereof, and eat of Hissustenance, and to Him is the return after death.
67/16 Are you secure of those in the heaven that He should notmake the earth to swallow you up? Then lo! it shall be in astate of commotion.
67/17 Or are you secure of those in the heaven that He shouldnot send down upon you a punishment? Then shall you know howwas My warning.
67/18 And certainly those before them rejected (the truth),then how was My disapproval.
67/19 Have they not seen the birds above them expanding (theirwings) and contracting (them)? What is it that withholdsthem save the Beneficent Allah? Surely He sees everything.
67/20 Or who is it that will be a host for you to assist youbesides the Beneficent Allah? The unbelievers are only indeception.
67/21 Or who is it that will give you sustenance if He shouldwithhold His sustenance? Nay! they persist in disdain andaversion.
67/22 What! is he who goes prone upon his face better guidedor he who walks upright upon a straight path?
67/23 Say: He it is Who brought you into being and made foryou the ears and the eyes and the hearts: little is it thatyou give thanks.
67/24 Say: He it is Who multiplied you in the earth and to Himyou shall be gathered.
67/25 And they say: When shall this threat be (executed) ifyou are truthful?
67/26 Say: The knowledge (thereof is only with Allah and I amonly a plain warner.
67/27 But when they shall see it nigh, the faces of those whodisbelieve shall be sorry, and it shall be said; This isthat which you used to call for.
67/28 Say: Have you considered if Allah should destroy me andthose with me-- rather He will have mercy on us; yet who willprotect the unbelievers from a painful punishment?
67/29 Say: He is the Beneficent Allah, we believe in Him and onHim do we rely, so you shall come to know who it is that isin clear error.
67/30 Say: Have you considered if your water should go down,who is it then that will bring you flowing water?
