73/1 O you who have wrapped up in your garments!
73/2 Rise to pray in the night except a little,
73/3 Half of it, or lessen it a little,
73/4 Or add to it, and recite the Quran as it ought to berecited.
73/5 Surely We will make to light upon you a weighty Word.
73/6 Surely the rising by night is the firmest way to treadand the best corrective of speech.
73/7 Surely you have in the day time a long occupation.
73/8 And remember the name of your Lord and devote yourself toHim with (exclusive) devotion.
73/9 The Lord of the East and the West-- there is no god butHe-- therefore take Him for a protector.
73/10 And bear patiently what they say and avoid them with abecoming avoidance.
73/11 And leave Me and the rejecters, the possessors of easeand plenty, and respite them a little.
73/12 Surely with Us are heavy fetters and a flaming fire,
73/13 And food that chokes and a painful punishment,
73/14 On the day when the earth and the mountains shall quakeand the mountains shall become (as) heaps of sand let loose.
73/15 Surely We have sent to you a Messenger, a witness againstyou, as We sent a messenger to Firon.
73/16 But Firon disobeyed the messenger, so We laid on him aviolent hold.
73/17 How, then, will you guard yourselves, if you disbelieve,on the day which shall make children grey-headed?
73/18 The heaven shall rend asunder thereby; His promise isever brought to fulfillment.
73/19 Surely this is a reminder, then let him, who will takethe way to his Lord.
73/20 Surely your Lord knows that you pass in prayer nearlytwo-thirds of the night, and (sometimes) half of it, and(sometimes) a third of it, and (also) a party of those withyou; and Allah measures the night and the day. He knows thatyou are not able to do it, so He has turned to you(mercifully), therefore read what is easy of the Quran. Heknows that there must be among you sick, and others whotravel in the land seeking of the bounty of Allah, andothers who fight in Allah's way, therefore read as much ofit as is easy (to you), and keep up prayer and pay thepoor-rate and offer to Allah a goodly gift, and whatever ofgood you send on beforehand for yourselves, you will find itwith Allah; that is best and greatest in reward; and askforgiveness of Allah; surely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
