16/1 Allah's commandment has come, therefore do not desire tohasten it; glory be to Him, and highly exalted be He abovewhat they associate (with Him).
16/2 He sends down the angels with the inspiration by Hiscommandment on whom He pleases of His servants, saying: Givethe warning that there is no god but Me, therefore becareful (of your duty) to Me.
16/3 He created the heavens and the earth with the truth,highly exalted be He above what they associate (with Him).
16/4 He created man from a small seed and lo! he is an opencontender.
16/5 And He created the cattle for you; you have in them warmclothing and (many) advantages, and of them do you eat.
16/6 And there is beauty in them for you when you drive themback (to home), and when you send them forth (to pasture).
16/7 And they carry your heavy loads to regions which youcould not reach but with distress of the souls; most surelyyour Lord is Compassionate, Merciful.
16/8 And (He made) horses and mules and asses that you mightride upon them and as an ornament; and He creates what youdo not know.
16/9 And upon Allah it rests to show the right way, and thereare some deviating (ways); and if He please He wouldcertainly guide you all aright.
16/10 He it is Who sends down water from the cloud for you; itgives drink, and by it (grow) the trees upon which youpasture.
16/11 He causes to grow for you thereby herbage, and theolives, and the palm trees, and the grapes, and of all thefruits; most surely there is a sign in this for a people whoreflect.
16/12 And He has made subservient for you the night and theday and the sun and the moon, and the stars are madesubservient by His commandment; most surely there are signsin this for a people who ponder;
16/13 And what He has created in the earth of varied hues mostsurely there is a sign in this for a people who are mindful.
16/14 And He it is Who has made the sea subservient that youmay eat fresh flesh from it and bring forth from itornaments which you wear, and you see the ships cleavingthrough it, and that you might seek of His bounty and thatyou may give thanks.
16/15 And He has cast great mountains in the earth lest itmight be convulsed with you, and rivers and roads that youmay go aright,
16/16 And landmarks; and by the stars they find the right way.
16/17 Is He then Who creates like him who does not create? Doyou not then mind?
16/18 And if you would count Allah's favors, you will not beable to number them; most surely Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
16/19 And Allah knows what you conceal and what you do openly.
16/20 And those whom they call on besides Allah have notcreated anything while they are themselves created;
16/21 Dead (are they), not living, and they know not when theyshall be raised.
16/22 Your Allah is one Allah; so (as for) those who do notbelieve m the hereafter, their hearts are ignorant and theyare proud.
16/23 Truly Allah knows what they hide and what they manifest;surely He does not love the proud.
16/24 And when it is said to them, what is it that your Lordhas revealed? They say: Stories of the ancients;
16/25 That they may bear their burdens entirely on the day ofresurrection and also of the burdens of those whom they leadastray without knowledge; now surely evil is what they bear.
16/26 Those before them did indeed devise plans, but Allahdemolished their building from the foundations, so the rooffell down on them from above them, and the punishment cameto them from whence they did not perceive.
16/27 Then on the resurrection day He will bring them todisgrace and say: Where are the associates you gave Me, forwhose sake you became hostile? Those who are given theknowledge will say: Surely the disgrace and the evil arethis day upon the unbelievers:
16/28 Those whom the angels cause to die while they are unjustto themselves. Then would they offer submission: We used notto do any evil. Aye! surely Allah knows what you did.
16/29 Therefore enter the gates of hell, to abide therein; socertainly evil is the dwelling place of the proud.
16/30 And it is said to those who guard (against evil): Whatis it that your Lord has revealed? They say, Good. For thosewho do good in this world is good, and certainly the abodeof the hereafter is better; and certainly most excellent isthe abode of those who guard (against evil);
16/31 The gardens of perpetuity, they shall enter them, riversflowing beneath them; they shall have in them what theyplease. Thus does Allah reward those who guard (againstevil),
16/32 Those whom the angels cause to die in a good state,saying: Peace be on you: enter the garden for what you did.
16/33 They do not wait aught but that the angels should cometo them or that the commandment of your Lord should come topass. Thus did those before them; and Allah was not unjustto them, but they were unjust to themselves.
16/34 So the evil (consequences) of what they did shallafflict them and that which they mocked shall encompassthem.
16/35 And they who give associates (to Allah) say: If Allahhad pleased, we would not have served anything besidesAllah, (neither) we nor our fathers, nor would we haveprohibited anything without (order from) Him. Thus did thosebefore them; is then aught incumbent upon the messengersexcept a plain delivery (of the message)?
16/36 And certainly We raised in every nation a messengersaying: Serve Allah and shun the Shaitan. So there were someof them whom Allah guided and there were others against whomerror was due; therefore travel in the land, then see whatwas the end of the rejecters.
16/37 If you desire for their guidance, yet surely Allah doesnot guide him who leads astray, nor shall they have anyhelpers.
16/38 And they swear by Allah with the most energetic of theiroaths: Allah will not raise up him who dies. Yea! it is apromise binding on Him, quite true, but most people do notknow;
16/39 So that He might make manifest to them that about whichthey differ, and that those who disbelieve might know thatthey were liars.
16/40 Our word for a thing when We intend it, is only that Wesay to it, Be, and it is.
16/41 And those who fly for Allah's sake after they areoppressed, We will most certainly give them a good abode inthe world, and the reward of the hereafter is certainly muchgreater, did they but know;
16/42 Those who are patient and on their Lord do they rely.
16/43 And We did not send before you any but men to whom Wesent revelation-- so ask the followers of the Reminder if youdo not know--
16/44 With clear arguments and scriptures; and We haverevealed to you the Reminder that you may make clear to menwhat has been revealed to them, and that haply they mayreflect.
16/45 Do they then who plan evil (deeds) feel secure (of this)that Allah will not cause the earth to swallow them or thatpunishment may not overtake them from whence they do notperceive?
16/46 Or that He may not seize them in the course of theirjourneys, then shall they not escape;
16/47 Or that He may not seize them by causing them to suffergradual loss, for your Lord is most surely Compassionate,Merciful.
16/48 Do they not consider every thing that Allah has created?Its (very) shadows return from right and left, makingobeisance to Allah while they are in utter abasement.
16/49 And whatever creature that is in the heavens and that isin the earth makes obeisance to Allah (only), and the angels(too) and they do not show pride.
16/50 They fear their Lord above them and do what they arecommanded.
16/51 And Allah has said: Take not two gods, He is only oneAllah; so of Me alone should you be afraid.
16/52 And whatever is in the heavens and the earth is His, andto Him should obedience be (rendered) constantly; will youthen guard against other than (the punishment of) Allah?
16/53 And whatever favor is (bestowed) on you it is fromAllah; then when evil afflicts you, to Him do you cry foraid.
16/54 Yet when He removes the evil from you, lo ! a party ofyou associate others with their Lord;
16/55 So that they be ungrateful for what We have given them;then enjoy yourselves; for soon will you know
16/56 And they set apart for what they do not know a portionof what We have given them. By Allah, you shall mostcertainly be questioned about that which you forged.
16/57 And they ascribe daughters to Allah, glory be to Him;and for themselves (they would have) what they desire.
16/58 And when a daughter is announced to one of them his facebecomes black and he is full of wrath.
16/59 He hides himself from the people because of the evil ofthat which is announced to him. Shall he keep it withdisgrace or bury it (alive) in the dust? Now surely evil iswhat they judge.
16/60 For those who do not believe in the hereafter is an evilattribute, and Allah's is the loftiest attribute; and He isthe Mighty, the Wise.
16/61 And if Allah had destroyed men for their iniquity, Hewould not leave on the earth a single creature, but Herespites them till an appointed time; so when their doomwill come they shall not be able to delay (it) an hour norcan they bring (it) on (before its time).
16/62 And they ascribe to Allah what they (themselves) hateand their tongues relate the lie that they shall have thegood; there is no avoiding it that for them is the fire andthat they shall be sent before.
16/63 By Allah, most certainly We sent (messengers) to nationsbefore you, but the Shaitan made their deeds fair-seeming tothem, so he is their guardian today, and they shall have apainful punishment.
16/64 And We have not revealed to you the Book except that youmay make clear to them that about which they differ, ind(as) a guidance and a mercy for a people who believe.
16/65 And Allah has sent down water from the cloud andtherewith given life to the earth after its death; mostsurely there is a sign in this for a people who wouldlisten.
16/66 And most surely there is a lesson for you in the cattle;We give you to drink of what is in their bellies-- frombetwixt the feces and the blood-- pure milk, easy andagreeable to swallow for those who drink.
16/67 And of the fruits of the palms and the grapes-- you obtainfrom them intoxication and goodly provision; most surelythere is a sign in this for a people who ponder.
16/68 And your Lord revealed to the bee saying: Make hives inthe mountains and in the trees and in what they build:
16/69 Then eat of all the fruits and walk in the ways of yourLord submissively. There comes forth from within it abeverage of many colours, in which there is healing for men;most surely there is a sign in this for a people whoreflect.
16/70 And Allah has created you, then He causes you to die,and of you is he who is brought back to the worst part oflife, so that after having knowledge he does not knowanything; surely Allah is Knowing, Powerful.
16/71 And Allah has made some of you excel others in the meansof subsistence, so those who are made to excel do not giveaway their sustenance to those whom their right handspossess so that they should be equal therein; is it then thefavor of Allah which they deny?
16/72 And Allah has made wives for you from among yourselves,and has given you sons and grandchildren from your wives,and has given you of the good things; is it then in thefalsehood that they believe while it is in the favor ofAllah that they disbelieve?
16/73 And they serve besides Allah that which does not controlfor them any sustenance at all from the heavens and theearth, nor have they any power.
16/74 Therefore do not give likenesses to Allah; surely Allahknows and you do not know.
16/75 Allah sets forth a parable: (consider) a slave, theproperty of another, (who) has no power over anything, andone whom We have granted from Ourselves a goodly sustenanceso he spends from it secretly and openly; are the two alike?(All) praise is due to Allah! Nay, most of them do not know.
16/76 And Allah sets forth a parable of two men; one of themis dumb, not able to do anything, and he is a burden to hismaster; wherever he sends him, he brings no good; can he beheld equal with him who enjoins what is just, and he(himself) is on the right path?
16/77 And Allah's is the unseen of the heavens and the earth;and the matter of the hour is but as the twinkling of an eyeor it is higher still; surely Allah has power over allthings.
16/78 And Allah has brought you forth from the wombs of yourmothers-- you did not know anything-- and He gave you hearingand sight and hearts that you may give thanks.
16/79 Do they not see the birds, constrained in the middle ofthe sky? None withholds them but Allah; most surely thereare signs in this for a people who believe.
16/80 And Allah has given you a place to abide in your houses,and He has given you tents of the skins of cattle which youfind light to carry on the day of your march and on the dayof your halting, and of their wool and their fur and theirhair (He has given you) household stuff and a provision fora time.
16/81 And Allah has made for you of what He has createdshelters, and He has given you in the mountains places ofretreat, and He has given you garments to preserve you fromthe heat and coats of mail to preserve you in yourfighting; even thus does He complete His favor upon you,that haply you may submit.
16/82 But if they turn back, then on you devolves only theclear deliverance (of the message).
16/83 They recognize the favor of Allah, yet they deny it, andmost of them are ungrateful.
16/84 And on the day when We will raise up a witness out ofevery nation, then shall no permission be given to those whoE disbelieve, nor shall they be made to solicit favor.
16/85 And when those who are unjust shall see thechastisement, it shall not be lightened for them, nor shallthey be respited. .
16/86 And when those who associate (others with Allah) shallsee their associate-gods, they shall say: Our Lord, theseare our associate-gods on whom we called besides Thee. Butthey will give them back the reply: Most surely you areliars.
16/87 And they shall tender submission to Allah on that day;and what they used to forge shall depart from them.
16/88 (As for) those who disbelieve and turn away from Allah'sway, We will add chastisement to their chastisement becausethey made mischief.
16/89 And on the day when We will raise up in every people awitness against them from among themselves, and bring you asa witness against these-- and We have revealed the Book toyou explaining clearly everything, and a guidance and mercyand good news for those who submit.
16/90 Surely Allah enjoins the doing of justice and the doingof good (to others) and the giving to the kindred, and Heforbids indecency and evil and rebellion; He admonishes youthat you may be mindful.
16/91 And fulfill the covenant of Allah when you have made acovenant, and do not break the oaths after making them fast,and you have indeed made Allah a surety for you; surelyAllah I . knows what you do.
16/92 And be not like her who unravels her yarn,disintegrating it into pieces after she has spun itstrongly. You make your oaths to be means of deceit betweenyou because (one) nation is more numerous than (another)nation. Allah only tries you by this; and He will mostcertainly make clear to you on the resurrection day thatabout which you differed.
16/93 And if Allah please He would certainly make you a singlenation, but He causes to err whom He pleases and guides whomHe pleases; and most certainly you will be questioned as towhat you did.
16/94 And do not make your oaths a means of deceit betweenyou, lest a foot should slip after its stability and youshould taste evil because you turned away from Allah's wayand grievous punishment be your (lot).
16/95 And do not take a small price in exchange for Allah'scovenant; surely what is with Allah is better for you, didyou but know.
16/96 What is with you passes away and what is with Allah isenduring; and We will most certainly give to those who arepatient their reward for the best of what they did.
16/97 Whoever does good whether male or female and he is abeliever, We will most certainly make him live a happy life,and We will most certainly give them their reward for thebest of what they did.
16/98 So when you recite the Quran, seek refuge with Allahfrom the accursed Shaitan,
16/99 Surely he has no authority over those who believe andrely on their Lord.
16/100 His authority is only over those who befriend him andthose who associate others with Him.
16/101 And when We change (one) communication for (another)communication, and Allah knows best what He reveals, theysay: You are only a forger. Nay, most of them do not know.
16/102 Say: The Holy spirit has revealed it from your Lordwith the truth, that it may establish those who believe andas a guidance and good news for those who submit.
16/103 And certainly We know that they say: Only a mortalteaches him. The tongue of him whom they reproach isbarbarous, and this is clear Arabic tongue.
16/104 (As for) those who do not believe in Allah'scommunications, surely Allah will not guide them, and theyshall have a painful punishment.
16/105 Only they forge the lie who do not believe in Allah'scommunications, and these are the liars.
16/106 He who disbelieves in Allah after his having believed,not he who is compelled while his heart is at rest onaccount of faith, but he who opens (his) breast todisbelief-- on these is the wrath of Allah, and they shallhave a grievous chastisement.
16/107 This is because they love this world's life more thanthe hereafter, and because Allah does not guide theunbelieving people.
16/108 These are they on whose hearts and their hearing andtheir eyes Allah has set a seal, and these are the heedlessones.
16/109 No doubt that in the hereafter they will be the losers.
16/110 Yet surely your Lord, with respect to those who flyafter they are persecuted, then they struggle hard and arepatient, most surely your Lord after that is Forgiving,Merciful.
16/111 (Remember) the day when every soul shall come, pleadingfor itself and every soul shall be paid in full what it hasdone, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly.
16/112 And Allah sets forth a parable: (Consider) a town safeand secure to which its means of subsistence come inabundance from every quarter; but it became ungrateful toAllah's favors, therefore Allah made it to taste the utmostdegree of hunger and fear because of what they wrought.
16/113 And certainly there came to them a Messenger from amongthem, but they rejected him, so the punishment overtook themwhile they were unjust.
16/114 Therefore eat of what Allah has given you, lawful andgood (things), and give thanks for Allah's favor if Him doyou serve.
16/115 He has only forbidden you what dies of itself and bloodand flesh of swine and that over which any other name thanthat of Allah has been invoked, but whoever is driven tonecessity, not desiring nor exceeding the limit, then surelyAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
16/116 And, for what your tongues describe, do not utter thelie, (saying) This is lawful and this is unlawful, in orderto forge a lie against Allah; surely those who forge the lieagainst Allah shall not prosper.
16/117 A little enjoyment and they shall have a painfulpunishment.
16/118 And for those who were Jews We prohibited what We haverelated to you already, and We did them no injustice, butthey were unjust to themselves.
16/119 Yet surely your Lord, with respect to those who do anevil in ignorance, then turn after that and make amends,most surely your Lord after that is Forgiving, Merciful.
16/120 Surely Ibrahim was an exemplar, obedient to Allah,upright, and he was not of the polytheists.
16/121 Grateful for His favors; He chose him and guided him onthe right path.
16/122 And We gave him good in this world, and in the next hewill most surely be among the good.
16/123 Then We revealed to you: Follow the faith of Ibrahim,the upright one, and he was not of the polytheists.
16/124 The Sabbath was ordained only for those who differedabout it, and most surely your Lord will judge between themon the resurrection day concerning that about which theydiffered.
16/125 Call to the way of your Lord with wisdom and goodlyexhortation, and have disputations with them in the bestmanner; surely your Lord best knows those who go astray fromHis path, and He knows best those who follow the right way.
16/126 And if you take your turn, then retaliate with the likeof that with which you were afflicted; but if you arepatient, it will certainly be best for those who arepatient.
16/127 And be patient and your patience is not but by (theassistance of) Allah, and grieve not for them, and do notdistress yourself at what they plan.
16/128 Surely Allah is with those who guard (against evil) andthose who do good (to others).
