24/1 (This is) a chapter which We have revealed and madeobligatory and in which We have revealed clearcommunications that you may be mindful.
24/2 (As for) the fornicatress and the fornicator, flog eachof them, (giving) a hundred stripes, and let not pity forthem detain you in the matter of obedience to Allah, if youbelieve in Allah and the last day, and let a party ofbelievers witness their chastisement.
24/3 The fornicator shall not marry any but a fornicatress oridolatress, and (as for) the fornicatress, none shall marryher but a fornicator or an idolater; and it is forbidden tothe believers.
24/4 And those who accuse free women then do not bring fourwitnesses, flog them, (giving) eighty stripes, and do notadmit any evidence from them ever; and these it is that arethe transgressors,
24/5 Except those who repent after this and act aright, forsurely Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/6 And (as for) those who accuse their wives and have nowitnesses except themselves, the evidence of one of these(should be taken) four times, bearing Allah to witness thathe is most surely of the truthful ones.
24/7 And the fifth (time) that the curse of Allah be on him ifhe is one of the liars.
24/8 And it shall avert the chastisement from her if shetestify four times, bearing Allah to witness that he is mostsurely one of the liars;
24/9 And the fifth (time) that the wrath of Allah be on her ifhe is one of the truthful.
24/10 And were it not for Allah's grace upon you and Hismercy-- and that Allah is Oft-returning (to mercy), Wise!
24/11 Surely they who concocted the lie are a party from amongyou. Do not regard it an evil to you; nay, it is good foryou. Every man of them shall have what he has earned of sin;and (as for) him who took upon himself the main partthereof, he shall have a grievous chastisement.
24/12 Why did not the believing men and the believing women,when you heard it, think well of their own people, and say:This is an evident falsehood?
24/13 Why did they not bring four witnesses of it? But as theyhave not brought witnesses they are liars before Allah.
24/14 And were it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercyin this world and the hereafter, a grievous chastisementwould certainly have touched you on account of the discoursewhich you entered into.
24/15 When you received it with your tongues and spoke withyour mouths what you had no knowledge of, and you deemed itan easy matter while with Allah it was grievous.
24/16 And why did you not, when you heard it, say: It does notbeseem us that we should talk of it; glory be to Thee! thisis a great calumny?
24/17 Allah admonishes you that you should not return to thelike of it ever again if you are believers.
24/18 And Allah makes clear to you the communications; andAllah is Knowing, Wise.
24/19 Surely (as for) those who love that scandal shouldcirculate respecting those who believe, they shall have agrievous chastisement in this world and the hereafter; andAllah knows, while you do not know.
24/20 And were it not for Allah's grace on you and His mercy,and that Allah is Compassionate, Merciful.
24/21 O you who believe! do not follow the footsteps of theShaitan, and whoever follows the footsteps of the Shaitan,then surely he bids the doing of indecency and evil; andwere it not for Allah's grace upon you and His mercy, notone of you would have ever been pure, but Allah purifieswhom He pleases; and Allah is Hearing, Knowing.
24/22 And let not those of you who possess grace and abundanceswear against giving to the near of kin and the poor andthose who have fled in Allah's way, and they should pardonand turn away. Do you not love that Allah should forgiveyou? And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/23 Surely those who accuse chaste believing women, unaware(of the evil), are cursed in this world and the hereafter,and they shall have a grievous chastisement.
24/24 On the day when their tongues and their hands and theirfeet shall bear witness against them as to what they did.
24/25 On that day Allah will pay back to them in full theirjust reward, and they shall know that Allah is the evidentTruth.
24/26 Bad women .are for bad men and bad men are for badwomen. Good women are for good men and good men are for goodwomen
24/27 O you who believe! Do not enter houses other than yourown houses until you have asked permission and saluted theirinmates; this is better for you, that you may be mindful.
24/28 But if you do not find any one therein, then do notenter them until permission is given to you; and if it issaid to you: Go back, then go back; this is purer for you;and Allah is Cognizant of what you do.
24/29 It is no sin in you that you enter uninhabited houseswherein you have your necessaries; and Allah knows what youdo openly and what you hide.
24/30 Say to the believing men that they cast down their looksand guard their private parts; that is purer for them;surely Allah is Aware of what they do.
24/31 And say to the believing women that they cast down theirlooks and guard their private parts and do not display theirornaments except what appears thereof, and let them weartheir head-coverings over their bosoms, and not displaytheir ornaments except to their husbands or their fathers,or the fathers of their husbands, or their sons, or the sonsof their husbands, or their brothers, or their brothers'sons, or their sisters' sons, or their women, or those whomtheir right hands possess, or the male servants not havingneed (of women), or the children who have not attainedknowledge of what is hidden of women; and let them notstrike their feet so that what they hide of their ornamentsmay be known; and turn to Allah all of you, O believers! sothat you may be successful.
24/32 And marry those among you who are single and those whoare fit among your male slaves and your female slaves; ifthey are needy, Allah will make them free from want out ofHis grace; and Allah is Ample-giving, Knowing.
24/33 And let those who do not find the means to marry keepchaste until Allah makes them free from want out of Hisgrace. And (as for) those who ask for a writing from amongthose whom your right hands possess, give them the writingif you know any good in them, and give them of the wealth ofAllah which He has given you; and do not compel your slavegirls to prostitution, when they desire to keep chaste, inorder to seek the frail good of this world's life; andwhoever compels them, then surely after their compulsionAllah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/34 And certainly We have sent to you clear communicationsand a description of those who have passed away before you,and an admonition to those who guard (against evil).
24/35 Allah is the light of the heavens and the earth; alikeness of His light is as a niche in which is a lamp, thelamp is in a glass, (and) the glass is as it were a brightlyshining star, lit from a blessed olive-tree, neither easternnor western, the oil whereof almost gives light though firetouch it not-- light upon light-- Allah guides to His lightwhom He pleases, and Allah sets forth parables for men, andAllah is Cognizant of all things.
24/36 In houses which Allah has permitted to be exalted andthat His name may be remembered in them; there glorify Himtherein in the mornings and the evenings,
24/37 Men whom neither merchandise nor selling diverts fromthe remembrance of Allah and the keeping up of prayer andthe giving of poor-rate; they fear a day in which the heartsand eyes shall turn about;
24/38 That Allah may give them the best reward of what theyhave done, and give them more out of His grace; and Allahgives sustenance to whom He pleases without measure.
24/39 And (as for) those who disbelieve, their deeds are likethe mirage in a desert, which the thirsty man deems to bewater; until when he comes to it he finds it to be naught,and there he finds Allah, so He pays back to him hisreckoning in full; and Allah is quick in reckoning;
24/40 Or like utter darkness in the deep sea: there covers ita wave above which is another wave, above which is a cloud,(layers of) utter darkness one above another; when he holdsout his hand, he is almost unable to see it; and towhomsoever Allah does not give light, he has no light.
24/41 Do you not see that Allah is He Whom do glorify allthose who are in the heavens and the earth, and the (very)birds with expanded wings? He knows the prayer of each oneand its glorification, and Allah is Cognizant of what theydo.
24/42 And Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth,and to Allah is the eventual coming.
24/43 Do you not see that Allah drives along the clouds, thengathers them together, then piles them up, so that you seethe rain coming forth from their midst? And He sends down ofthe clouds that are (like) mountains wherein is hail,afflicting therewith whom He pleases and turning it awayfrom whom He pleases; the flash of His lightning almosttakes away the sight.
24/44 Allah turns over the night and the day; most surelythere is a lesson in this for those who have sight.
24/45 And Allah has created from water every living creature:so of them is that which walks upon its belly, and of themis that which walks upon two feet, and of them is that whichwalks upon four; Allah creates what He pleases; surely Allahhas power over all things.
24/46 Certainly We have revealed clear communications, andAllah guides whom He pleases to the right way.
24/47 And they say: We believe in Allah and in the messenger andwe obey; then a party of them turn back after this, andthese are not believers.
24/48 And when they are called to Allah and His Messenger thathe may judge between them, lo! a party of them turn aside.
24/49 And if the truth be on their side, they come to himquickly, obedient.
24/50 Is there in their hearts a disease, or are they indoubt, or do they fear that Allah and His Messenger will actwrongfully towards them? Nay! they themselves are theunjust.
24/51 The response of the believers, when they are invited toAllah and His Messenger that he may judge between them, isonly to say: We hear and we obey; and these it is that arethe successful.
24/52 And he who obeys Allah and His Messenger, and fears Allah,and is careful of (his duty to) Him, these it is that arethe achievers.
24/53 And they swear by Allah with the most energetic of theiroaths that if you command them they would certainly goforth. Say: Swear not; reasonable obedience (is desired);surely Allah is aware of what you do.
24/54 Say: Obey Allah and obey the Messenger; but if you turnback, then on him rests that which is imposed on him and onyou rests that which is imposed on you; and if you obey him,you are on the right way; and nothing rests on the Messengerbut clear delivering (of the message).
24/55 Allah has promised to those of you who believe and dogood that He will most certainly make them rulers in theearth as He made rulers those before them, and that He willmost certainly establish for them their religion which Hehas chosen for them, and that He will most certainly, aftertheir fear, give them security in exchange; they shall serveMe, not associating aught with Me; and whoever is ungratefulafter this, these it is who are the. transgressors.
24/56 And keep up prayer and pay the poor-rate and obey theMessenger, so that mercy may be shown to you.
24/57 Think not that those who disbelieve shall escape in theearth, and their abode is the fire; and certainly evil isthe resort!
24/58 O you who believe! let those whom your right handspossess and those of you who have not attained to pubertyask permission of you three times; before the morningprayer, and when you put off your clothes at midday insummer, and after the prayer of the nightfall; these arethree times of privacy for you; neither is it a sin for younor for them besides these, some of you must go round about(waiting) upon others; thus does Allah make clear to you thecommunications, and Allah is Knowing, Wise.
24/59 And when the children among you have attained topuberty, let them seek permission as those before themsought permission; thus does Allah make clear to you Hiscommunications, and Allah is knowing, Wise.
24/60 And (as for) women advanced in years who do not hope fora marriage, it is no sin for them if they put off theirclothes without displaying their ornaments; and if theyrestrain themselves it is better for them; and Allah isHearing, Knowing.
24/61 There is no blame on the blind man, nor is there blameon the lame, nor is there blame on the sick, nor onyourselves that you eat from your houses, or your fathers'houses or your mothers' houses, or your brothers' houses, oryour sisters' houses, or your paternal uncles' houses, oryour paternal aunts' houses, or your maternal uncles'houses, or your maternal aunts' houses, or what you possessthe keys of, or your friends' (houses). It is no sin in youthat you eat together or separately. So when you enterhouses, greet your people with a salutation from Allah,blessed (and) goodly; thus does Allah make clear to you thecommunications that you may understand.
24/62 Only those are believers who believe in Allah and HisMessenger, and when they are with him on a momentous affairthey go not away until they have asked his permission;surely they who ask your permission are they who believe inAllah and His Messenger; so when they ask your permission forsome affair of theirs, give permission to whom you please ofthem and ask forgiveness for them from Allah; surely Allahis Forgiving, Merciful.
24/63 Do not hold the Messenger's calling (you) among you to belike your calling one to the other; Allah indeed knows thosewho steal away from among you, concealing themselves;therefore let those beware who go against his order lest atrial afflict them or there befall them a painfulchastisement.
24/64 Now surely Allah's is whatever is in the heavens and theearth; He knows indeed that to which you are conformingyourselves; and on the day on which they are returned to HimHe will inform them of what they did; and Allah is Cognizantof all things.
