13/1 Alif Lam Mim Ra. These are the verses of the Book; andthat which is revealed to you from your Lord is the truth,but most people do not believe.
13/2 Allah is He Who raised the heavens without any pillarsthat you see, and He is firm in power and He made the sunand the moon subservient (to you); each one pursues itscourse to an appointed time; He regulates the affair, makingclear the signs that you may be certain of meeting yourLord.
13/3 And He it is Who spread the earth and made in it firmmountains and rivers, and of all fruits He has made in ittwo kinds; He makes the night cover the day; most surelythere are signs in this for a people who reflect.
13/4 And in the earth there are tracts side by side andgardens of grapes and corn and palm trees having one rootand (others) having distinct roots-- they are watered with onewater, and We make some of them excel others in fruit; mostsurely there are signs in this for a people who understand.
13/5 And if you would wonder, then wondrous is their saying:What! when we are dust, shall we then certainly be in a newcreation? These are they who disbelieve in their Lord, andthese have chains on their necks, and they are the inmatesof the fire; in it they shall abide.
13/6 And they ask you to hasten on the evil before the good,and indeed there have been exemplary punishments beforethem; and most surely your Lord is the Lord of forgivenessto people, notwithstanding their injustice; and most surelyyour Lord is severe in requiting (evil).
13/7 And those who disbelieve say: Why has not a sign beensent down upon him from his Lord? You are only a warner and(there is) a guide for every people.
13/8 Allah knows what every female bears, and that of whichthe wombs fall short of completion and that in which theyincrease; and there is a measure with Him of everything.
13/9 The knower of the unseen and the seen, the Great, theMost High.
13/10 Alike (to Him) among you is he who conceals (his) wordsand he who speaks them openly, and he who hides himself bynight and (who) goes forth by day.
13/11 For his sake there are angels following one another,before him and behind him, who guard him by Allah'scommandment; surely Allah does not change the condition of apeople until they change their own condition; and when Allahintends evil to a people, there is no averting it, andbesides Him they have no protector.
13/12 He it is Who shows you the lightning causing fear andhope and (Who) brings up the heavy cloud.
13/13 And the thunder declares His glory with His praise, andthe angels too for awe of Him; and He sends the thunderboltsand smites with them whom He pleases, yet they disputeconcerning Allah, and He is mighty in prowess.
13/14 To Him is due the true prayer; and those whom they prayto besides Allah give them no answer, but (they are) likeone who stretches forth his two hands towards water that itmay reach his mouth, but it will not reach it; and theprayer of the unbelievers is only in error.
13/15 And whoever is in the heavens and the earth makesobeisance to Allah only, willingly and unwillingly, andtheir shadows too at morn and eve.
13/16 Say: Who is the Lord of the heavens and the earth?-- Say:Allah. Say: Do you take then besides Him guardians who donot control any profit or harm for themselves? Say: Are theblind and the seeing alike? Or can the darkness and thelight be equal? Or have they set up with Allah associateswho have created creation like His, so that what is createdbecame confused to them? Say: Allah is the Creator of allthings, and He is the One, the Supreme.
13/17 He sends down water from the cloud, then watercoursesflow (with water) according to their measure, and thetorrent bears along the swelling foam, and from what theymelt in the fire for the sake of making ornaments orapparatus arises a scum like it; thus does Allah comparetruth and falsehood; then as for the scum, it passes away asa worthless thing; and as for that which profits the people,it tarries in the earth; thus does Allah set forth parables.
13/18 For those who respond to their Lord is good; and (asfor) those who do not respond to Him, had they all that isin the earth and the like thereof with it they wouldcertainly offer it for a ransom. (As for) those, an evilreckoning shall be theirs and their abode is hell, and evilis the resting-place.
13/19 Is he then who knows that what has been revealed to youfrom your Lord is the truth like him who is blind? Onlythose possessed of understanding will mind,
13/20 Those who fulfil the promise of Allah and do not breakthe covenant,
13/21 And those who join that which Allah has bidden to bejoined and have awe of their Lord and fear the evilreckoning.
13/22 And those who are constant, seeking the pleasure oftheir Lord, and keep up prayer and spend (benevolently) outof what We have given them secretly and openly and repelevil with good; as for those, they shall have the (happy)issue of the abode
13/23 The gardens of perpetual abode which they will enteralong with those who do good from among their parents andtheir spouses and their offspring; and the angels will enterin upon them from every gate:
13/24 Peace be on you because you were constant, howexcellent, is then, the issue of the abode.
13/25 And those who break the covenant of Allah after itsconfirmation and cut asunder that which Allah has ordered tobe joined and make mischief in the land; (as for) those,upon them shall be curse and they shall have the evil(issue) of the abode.
13/26 Allah amplifies and straitens the means of subsistencefor whom He pleases; and they rejoice in this world's life,and this world's life is nothing compared with the hereafterbut a temporary enjoyment.
13/27 And those who disbelieve say: Why is not a sign sentdown upon him by his Lord? Say: Surely Allah makes him whowill go astray, and guides to Himself those who turn (toHim).
13/28 Those who believe and whose hearts are set at rest bythe remembrance of Allah; now surely by Allah's remembranceare the hearts set at rest.
13/29 (As for) those who believe and do good, a good finalstate shall be theirs and a goodly return.
13/30 And thus We have sent you among a nation before whichother nations have passed away, that you might recite tothem what We have revealed to you and (still) they deny theBeneficent Allah. Say: He is my Lord, there is no god but He;on Him do I rely and to Him is my return.
13/31 And even if there were a Quran with which the mountainswere made to pass away, or the earth were travelled overwith it, or the dead were made to speak thereby; nay! thecommandment is wholly Allah's, Have not yet those whobelieve known that if Allah please He would certainly guideall the people? And (as for) those who disbelieve, therewill not cease to afflict them because of what they do arepelling calamity, or it will alight close by their abodes,until the promise of Allah comes about; surely Allah willnot fail in (His) promise.
13/32 And messengers before you were certainly mocked at, but Igave respite to those who disbelieved, then I destroyedthem; how then was My requital (of evil)?
13/33 Is He then Who watches every soul as to what it earns?And yet they give associates to Allah! Say: Give them aname; nay, do you mean to inform Him of what He does notknow in the earth, or (do you affirm this) by an outwardsaying? Rather, their plans are made to appear fair-seemingto those who disbelieve, and they are kept back from thepath; and whom Allah makes err, he shall have no guide.
13/34 They shall have chastisement in this world's life, andthe chastisement of the hereafter is certainly moregrievous, and they shall have no protector against Allah.
13/35 A likeness of the garden which the righteous arepromised; there now beneath it rivers, its food and shadesare perpetual; this is the requital of those who guarded(against evil), and the requital of the unbelievers is thefire.
13/36 And those to whom We have given the Book rejoice in thatwhich has been revealed to you, and of the confederates aresome who deny a part of it. Say: I am only commanded that Ishould serve Allah and not associate anything with Him, toHim do I invite (you) and to Him is my return.
13/37 And thus have We revealed it, a true judgment in Arabic,and if you follow their low desires after what has come toyou of knowledge, you shall not have against Allah anyguardian or a protector.
13/38 And certainly We sent messengers before you and gave themwives and children, and it is not in (the power of) anmessenger to bring a sign except by Allah's permission; forevery term there is an appointment.
13/39 Allah makes to pass away and establishes what Hepleases, and with Him is the basis of the Book.
13/40 And We will either let you see part of what We threatenthem with or cause you to die, for only the delivery of themessage is (incumbent) on you, while calling (them) toaccount is Our (business).
13/41 Do they not see that We are bringing destruction uponthe land by curtailing it of its sides? And Allah pronouncesa doom-- there is no repeller of His decree, and He is swiftto take account.
13/42 And those before them did indeed make plans, but allplanning is Allah's; He knows what every soul earns, and theunbelievers shall come to know for whom is the (better)issue of the abode.
13/43 And those who disbelieve say: You are not a messenger.Say: Allah is sufficient as a witness between me and you andwhoever has knowledge of the Book.
