30/1 Alif Lam Mim.
30/2 The Romans are vanquished,
30/3 In a near land, and they, after being vanquished, shallovercome,
30/4 Within a few years. Allah's is the command before andafter; and on that day the believers shall rejoice,
30/5 With the help of Allah; He helps whom He pleases; and Heis the Mighty, the Merciful;
30/6 (This is) Allah's promise! Allah will not fail Hispromise, but most people do not know.
30/7 They know the outward of this world's life, but of thehereafter they are absolutely heedless.
30/8 Do they not reflect within themselves: Allah did notcreate the heavens and the earth and what is between themtwo but with truth, and (for) an appointed term? And mostsurely most of the people are deniers of the meeting oftheir Lord.
30/9 Have they not travelled in the earth and seen how was theend of those before them? They were stronger than these inprowess, and dug up the earth, and built on it in greaterabundance than these have built on it, and there came tothem their messengers with clear arguments; so it was notbeseeming for Allah that He should deal with them unjustly,but they dealt unjustly with their own souls.
30/10 Then evil was the end of those who did evil, becausethey | rejected the communications of Allah and used to mockthem.
30/11 Allah originates the creation, then reproduces it, thento Him you shall be brought back.
30/12 And at the time when the hour shall come the guiltyshall be in despair.
30/13 And they shall not have any intercessors from amongtheir gods they have joined with Allah, and they shall bedeniers of their associate-gods.
30/14 And at the time when the hour shall come, at that timethey shall become separated one from the other.
30/15 Then as to those who believed and did good, they shallbe made happy in a garden.
30/16 And as to those who disbelieved and rejected Ourcommunications and the meeting of the hereafter, these shallbe brought over to the chastisement.
30/17 Therefore glory be to Allah when you enter upon the timeof the evening and when you enter upon the time of themorning.
30/18 And to Him belongs praise in the heavens and the earth,and at nightfall and when you are at midday.
30/19 He brings forth the living from the dead and bringsforth the dead from the living, and gives life to the earthafter its death, and thus shall you be brought forth.
30/20 And one of His signs is that He created you from dust,then lo! you are mortals (who) scatter.
30/21 And one of His signs is that He created mates for youfrom yourselves that you may find rest in them, and He putbetween you love and compassion; most surely there are signsin this for a people who reflect.
30/22 And one of His signs is the creation of the heavens andthe earth and the diversity of your tongues and colors; mostsurely there are signs in this for the learned.
30/23 And one of His signs is your sleeping and your seekingof His grace by night and (by) day; most surely there aresigns in this for a people who would hear.
30/24 And one of His signs is that He shows you the lightningfor fear and for hope, and sends down water from the cloudsthen gives life therewith to the earth after its death; mostsurely there are signs in this for a people who understand
30/25 And one of His signs is that the heaven and the earthsubsist by His command, then when He calls you with a(single) call from out of the earth, lo! you come forth.
30/26 And His is whosoever is in the heavens and the earth;all are obedient to Him.
30/27 And He it is Who originates the creation, thenreproduces it, and it is easy to Him; and His are the mostexalted attributes in the heavens and the earth, and He isthe Mighty, the Wise.
30/28 He sets forth to you a parable relating to yourselves:Have you among those whom your right hands possess partnersin what We have given you for sustenance, so that withrespect to it you are alike; you fear them as you fear eachother? Thus do We make the communications distinct for apeople who understand.
30/29 Nay! those who are unjust follow their low desireswithout any knowledge; so who can guide him whom Allah makeserr? And they shall have no helpers.
30/30 Then set your face upright for religion in the rightstate-- the nature made by Allah in which He has made men;there is no altering of Allah's creation; that is the rightreligion, but most people do not know--
30/31 Turning to Him, and be careful of (your duty to) Him andkeep up prayer and be not of the polytheists
30/32 Of those who divided their religion and became seasevery sect rejoicing in what they had with them
30/33 And when harm afflicts men, they call upon their Lord,turning to Him, then when He makes them taste of mercy fromHim, lo! some of them begin to associate (others) with theirLord,
30/34 So as to be ungrateful for what We have given them; butenjoy yourselves (for a while), for you shall soon come toknow.
30/35 Or, have We sent down upon them an authority so that itspeaks of that which they associate with Him?
30/36 And when We make people taste of mercy they rejoice init, and if an evil befall them for what their hands havealready wrought, lo! they are in despair.
30/37 Do they not see that Allah makes ample provision forwhom He pleases, or straitens? Most surely there are signsin this for a people who believe.
30/38 Then give to the near of kin his due, and to the needyand the wayfarer; this is best for those who desire Allah'spleasure, and these it is who are successful.
30/39 And whatever you lay out as usury, so that it mayincrease in the property of men, it shall not increase withAllah; and whatever you give in charity, desiring Allah'spleasure-- it is these (persons) that shall get manifold.
30/40 Allah is He Who created you, then gave you sustenance,then He causes you to die, then brings you to life. Is thereany of your associate-gods who does aught of it? Glory be toHim, and exalted be He above what they associate (with Him).
30/41 Corruption has appeared in the land and the sea onaccount of what the hands of men have wrought, that He maymake them taste a part of that which they have done, so thatthey may return.
30/42 Say: Travel in the land, then see how was the end ofthose before; most of them were polytheists.
30/43 Then turn thy face straight to the right religion beforethere come from Allah the day which cannot be averted; onthat day they shall become separated.
30/44 Whoever disbelieves, he shall be responsible for hisdisbelief, and whoever does good, they prepare (good) fortheir own souls,
30/45 That He may reward those who believe and do good out ofHis grace; surely He does not love the unbelievers.
30/46 And one of His signs is that He sends forth the windsbearing good news, and that He may make your taste of Hismercy, and that the ships may run by His command, and thatyou may seek of His grace, and that you may be grateful.
30/47 And certainly We sent before you messengers to theirpeople, so they came to them with clear arguments, then Wegave the punishment to those who were guilty; and helpingthe believers is ever incumbent on Us.
30/48 Allah is he Who sends forth the winds so they raise acloud, then He spreads it forth in the sky as He pleases,and He breaks it up so that you see the rain coming forthfrom inside it; then when He causes it to fall upon whom Hepleases of His servants, lo! they are joyful
30/49 Though they were before this, before it was sent downupon them, confounded in sure despair.
30/50 Look then at the signs of Allah's mercy, how He giveslife to the earth after its death, most surely He will raisethe dead to life; and He has power over all things.
30/51 And if We send a wind and they see it to be yellow, theywould after that certainly continue to disbelieve
30/52 For surely you cannot, make the dead to hear and youcannot make the deaf to hear the call, when they turn backand
30/53 Nor can you lead away the blind out of their error. Youcannot make to hear any but those who believe in Ourcommunications so they shall submit.
30/54 Allah is He Who created you from a state of weaknessthen He gave strength after weakness, then ordained weaknessand hoary hair after strength; He creates what He pleases,and He is the Knowing, the Powerful.
30/55 And at the time when the hour shall come, the guiltyshall swear (that) they did not tarry but an hour; thus arethey ever turned away.
30/56 And those who are given knowledge and faith will say:Certainly you tarried according to the ordinance of Allahtill the day of resurrection, so this is the day ofresurrection, but you did not know.
30/57 But on that day their excuse shall not profit those whowere unjust, nor shall they be regarded with goodwill.
30/58 And certainly We have set forth for men every kind ofexample in this Quran; and if you should bring them acommunication, those who disbelieve would certainly say: Youare naught but false claimants.
30/59 Thus does Allah set a seal on the hearts of those who donot know.
30/60 Therefore be patient; surely the promise of Allah istrue and let not those who have no certainty hold you inlight estimation.
