32/1 Alif Lam Mim.
32/2 The revelation of the Book, there is no doubt in it, isfrom the Lord of the worlds.
32/3 Or do they say: He has forged it? Nay! it is the truthfrom your Lord that you may warn a people to whom no warnerhas come before you, that they may follow the rightdirection.
32/4 Allah is He Who created the heavens and the earth andwhat is between them in six periods, and He mounted thethrone (of authority); you have not besides Him any guardianor any intercessor, will you not then mind?
32/5 He regulates the affair from the heaven to the earth;then shall it ascend to Him in a day the measure of which isa thousand years of what you count.
32/6 This is the Knower of the unseen and the seen, the Mightythe Merciful,
32/7 Who made good everything that He has created, and Hebegan the creation of man from dust.
32/8 Then He made his progeny of an extract, of water held inlight estimation.
32/9 Then He made him complete and breathed into him of Hisspirit, and made for you the ears and the eyes and thehearts; little is it that you give thanks.
32/10 And they say: What! when we have become lost in theearth, shall we then certainly be in a new creation? Nay!they are disbelievers in the meeting of their Lord.
32/11 Say: The angel of death who is given charge of you shallcause you to die, then to your Lord you shall be broughtback.
32/12 And could you but see when the guilty shall hang downtheir heads before their Lord: Our Lord! we have seen and wehave heard, therefore send us back, we will do good; surely(now) we are certain.
32/13 And if We had pleased We would certainly have given toevery soul its guidance, but the word (which had gone forth)from Me was just: I will certainly fill hell with the jinnand men together.
32/14 So taste, because you neglected the meeting of this dayof yours; surely We forsake you; and taste the abidingchastisement for what you did.
32/15 Only they believe in Our communications who, when theyare reminded of them, fall down in prostration andcelebrate the praise of their Lord, and they are not proud.
32/16 Their sides draw away from (their) beds, they call upontheir Lord in fear and in hope, and they spend(benevolently) out of what We have given them.
32/17 So no soul knows what is hidden for them of that whichwill refresh the eyes; a reward for what they did.
32/18 Is he then who is a believer like him who is atransgressor? They are not equal.
32/19 As for those who believe and do good, the gardens aretheir abiding-place; an entertainment for what they did.
32/20 And as for those who transgress, their abode is thefire; whenever they desire to go forth from it they shall bebrought back into it, and it will be said to them: Taste thechastisement of the fire which you called a lie.
32/21 And most certainly We will make them taste of the nearerchastisement before the greater chastisement that haply theymay turn.
32/22 And who is more unjust than he who is reminded of thecommunications of his Lord, then he turns away from them?Surely We will give punishment to the guilty.
32/23 And certainly We gave the Book to Musa, so be not indoubt concerning the receiving of it, and We made it a guidefor the children of Israel.
32/24 And We made of them Imams to guide by Our command whenthey were patient, and they were certain of Ourcommunications.
32/25 Surely your Lord will judge between them on the day ofresurrection concerning that wherein they differ.
32/26 Does it not point out to them the right way, how many ofthe generations, in whose abodes they go about, did Wedestroy before them? Most surely there are signs in this;will they not then hear?
32/27 Do they not see that We drive the water to a land havingno herbage, then We bring forth thereby seed-produce ofwhich their cattle and they themselves eat; will they notthen see?
32/28 And they say: When will this judgment take place, If youare truthful?
32/29 Say: On the day of judgment the faith of those who (now)disbelieve will not profit them, nor will they be respited.
32/30 Therefore turn away from them and wait, surely they tooare waiting.
