42/1 Ha Mim.
42/2 Ain Sin Qaf.
42/3 Thus does Allah, the Mighty, the Wise, reveal to you, and(thus He revealed) to those before you.
42/4 His is what is in the heavens and what is in the earth,and He is the High, the Great.
42/5 The heavens may almost rend asunder from above them andthe angels sing the praise of their Lord and ask forgivenessfor those on earth; now surely Allah is the Forgiving, theMerciful.
42/6 And (as for) those who take guardians besides Him, Allahwatches over them, and you have not charge over them.
42/7 And thus have We revealed to you an Arabic Quran, thatyou may warn the mother city and those around it, and thatyou may give warning of the day of gathering togetherwherein is no doubt; a party shall be in the garden and(another) party in the burning fire.
42/8 And if Allah had pleased He would surely have made them asingle community, but He makes whom He pleases enter intoHis mercy, and the unjust it is that shall have no guardianor helper.
42/9 Or have they taken guardians besides Him? But Allah isthe Guardian, and He gives life to the dead, and He haspower over all things.
42/10 And in whatever thing you disagree, the judgment thereofis (in) Allah's (hand); that is Allah, my Lord, on Him do Irely and to Him do I turn time after time.
42/11 The Originator of the heavens and the earth; He mademates for you from among yourselves, and mates of the cattletoo, multiplying you thereby; nothing like a likeness ofHim; and He is the Hearing, the Seeing.
42/12 His are the treasures of the heavens and the earth; Hemakes ample and straitens the means of subsistence for whomHe pleases; surely He is Cognizant of all things.
42/13 He has made plain to you of the religion what Heenjoined upon Nuh and that which We have revealed to you andthat which We enjoined upon Ibrahim and Musa and Isa thatkeep to obedience and be not divided therein; hard to theunbelievers is that which you call them to; Allah choosesfor Himself whom He pleases, and guides to Himself him whoturns (to Him), frequently.
42/14 And they did not become divided until after knowledgehad come to them out of envy among themselves; and had not aword gone forth from your Lord till an appointed term,certainly judgment would have been given between them; andthose who were made to inherit the Book after them are mostsurely in disquieting doubt concerning it.
42/15 To this then go on inviting, and go on steadfastly onthe right way as you are commanded, and do not follow theirlow desires, and say: I believe in what Allah has revealedof the Book, and I am commanded to do justice between you:Allah is our Lord and your Lord; we shall have our deeds andyou shall have your deeds; no plea need there be (now)between us and you: Allah will gather us together, and toHim is the return.
42/16 And (as for) those who dispute about Allah after thatobedience has been rendered to Him, their plea is null withtheir Lord, and upon them is wrath, and for them is severepunishment.
42/17 Allah it is Who revealed the Book with truth, and thebalance, and what shall make you know that haply the hour benigh?
42/18 Those who do not believe in it would hasten it on, andthose who believe are in fear from it, and they know that itis the truth. Now most surely those who dispute obstinatelyconcerning the hour are in a great error.
42/19 Allah is Benignant to His servants; He gives sustenanceto whom He pleases, and He is the Strong, the Mighty.
42/20 Whoever desires the gain of the hereafter, We will givehim more of that gain; and whoever desires the gain of thisworld, We give him of it, and in the hereafter he has noportion.
42/21 Or have they associates who have prescribed for them anyreligion that Allah does not sanction? And were it not forthe word of judgment, decision would have certainly beengiven between them; and surely the unjust shall have apainful punishment.
42/22 You will see the unjust fearing on account of what theyhave earned, and it must befall them; and those who believeand do good shall be in the meadows of the gardens; theyshall have what they please with their Lord: that is thegreat grace.
42/23 That is of which Allah gives the good news to Hisservants, (to) those who believe and do good deeds. Say: Ido not ask of you any reward for it but love for my nearrelatives; and whoever earns good, We give him more of goodtherein; surely Allah is Forgiving, Grateful.
42/24 Or do they say: He has forged a lie against Allah? Butif Allah pleased, He would seal your heart; and Allah willblot out the falsehood and confirm the truth with His words;surely He is Cognizant of what is in the breasts.
42/25 And He it is Who accepts repentance from His servantsand pardons the evil deeds and He knows what you do;
42/26 And He answers those who believe and do good deeds, andgives them more out of His grace; and (as for) theunbelievers, they shall have a severe punishment.
42/27 And if Allah should amplify the provision for Hisservants they would certainly revolt in the earth; but Hesends it down according to a measure as He pleases; surelyHe is Aware of, Seeing, His servants.
42/28 And He it is Who sends down the rain after they havedespaired, and He unfolds His mercy; and He is the Guardian,the Praised One.
42/29 And one of His signs is the creation of the heavens andthe earth and what He has spread forth in both of them ofliving beings; and when He pleases He is all-powerful togather them together.
42/30 And whatever affliction befalls you, it is on account ofwhat your hands have wrought, and (yet) He pardons most (ofyour faults).
42/31 And you cannot escape in the earth, and you shall nothave a guardian or a helper besides Allah.
42/32 And among His signs are the ships in the sea likemountains.
42/33 If He pleases, He causes the wind to become still sothat they lie motionless on its back; most surely there aresigns in this for every patient, grateful one,
42/34 Or He may make them founder for what they have earned,and (even then) pardon most;
42/35 And (that) those who dispute about Our communicationsmay know; there is no place of refuge for them.
42/36 So whatever thing you are given, that is only aprovision of this world's life, and what is with Allah isbetter and more lasting for those who believe and rely ontheir Lord.
42/37 And those who. shun the great sins and indecencies, andwhenever they are angry they forgive.
42/38 And those who respond to their Lord and keep up prayer,and their rule is to take counsel among themselves, and whospend out of what We have given them.
42/39 And those who, when great wrong afflicts them, defendthemselves.
42/40 And the recompense of evil is punishment like it, butwhoever forgives and amends, he shall have his reward fromAllah; surely He does not love the unjust.
42/41 And whoever defends himself after his being oppressed,these it is against whom there is no way (to blame).
42/42 The way (to blame) is only against those who oppress menand revolt in the earth unjustly; these shall have a painfulpunishment.
42/43 And whoever is patient and forgiving, these most surelyare actions due to courage.
42/44 And whomsoever Allah makes err, he has no guardian afterHim; and you shall see the unjust, when they see thepunishment, saying: Is there any way to return?
42/45 And you shall see them brought before it humblingthemselves because of the abasements, looking with a faintglance. And those who believe shall say: Surely the losersare they who have lost themselves and their followers on theresurrection day. Now surely the iniquitous shall remain inlasting chastisement.
42/46 And they shall have no friends to help them besidesAllah; and-- whomsoever Allah makes err, he shall have no way.
42/47 Hearken to your Lord before there comes the day fromAllah for which there shall be no averting; you shall haveno refuge on that day, nor shall it be yours to make adenial.
42/48 But if they turn aside, We have not sent you as awatcher over them; on you is only to deliver (the message);and surely when We make man taste mercy from Us, he rejoicesthereat; and if an evil afflicts them on account of whattheir hands have already done, then-surely man isungrateful.
42/49 Allah's is the kingdom of the heavens and the earth; Hecreates what He pleases; He grants to whom He pleasesdaughters and grants to whom He pleases sons.
42/50 Or He makes them of both sorts, male and female; and Hemakes whom He pleases barren; surely He is the Knowing, thePowerful.
42/51 And it is not for any mortal that Allah should speak tothem, they could not bear to hear and they did not see.
42/52 And thus did We reveal to you an inspired book by Ourcommand. You did not know what the Book was, nor (what) thefaith (was), but We made it a light, guiding thereby whom Weplease of Our servants; and most surely you show the way tothe right path:
42/53 The path of Allah, Whose is whatsoever is in the heavensand whatsoever is in the earth; now surely to Allah do allaffairs eventually come.
