65/1 O Prophet! when you divorce women, divorce them for~their prescribed time, and calculate the number of the daysprescribed, and be careful of (your duty to) Allah, yourLord. Do not drive them out of their houses, nor should theythemselves go forth, unless they commit an open indecency;and these are the limits of Allah, and whoever goes beyondthe limits of Allah, he indeed does injustice to his ownsoul. You do not know that Allah may after that bring aboutreunion.
65/2 So when they have reached their prescribed time, thenretain them with kindness or separate them with kindness,and call to witness two men of justice from among you, andgive upright testimony for Allah. With that is admonished hewho believes in Allah and the latter day; and whoever iscareful of (his duty to) Allah, He will make for him anoutlet,
65/3 And give him sustenance from whence he thinks not; andwhoever trusts in Allah, He is sufficient for him; surelyAllah attains His purpose; Allah indeed has appointed ameasure for everything.
65/4 And (as for) those of your women who have despaired ofmenstruation, if you have a doubt, their prescribed timeshall be three months, and of those too who have not hadtheir courses; and (as for) the pregnant women, theirprescribed time is that they lay down their burden; andwhoever is careful of (his duty to) Allah He will make easyfor him his affair.
65/5 That is the command of Allah which He has revealed toyou, and whoever is careful of (his duty to) Allah, He willremove from him his evil and give him a big reward.
65/6 Lodge them where you lodge according to your means, anddo not injure them in order that you may straiten them; andif they are pregnant, spend on them until they lay downtheir burden; then if they suckle for you, give them theirrecompense and enjoin one another among you to do good; andif you disagree, another (woman) shall suckle for him.
65/7 Let him who has abundance spend out of his abundance andwhoever has his means of subsistence straitened to him, lethim spend out of that which Allah has given him; Allah doesnot lay on any soul a burden except to the extent to whichHe has granted it; Allah brings about ease after difficulty.
65/8 And how many a town which rebelled against thecommandment of its Lord and His messengers, so We called it toaccount severely and We chastised it (with) a sternchastisement.
65/9 So it tasted the evil result of its conduct, and the endof its affair was perdition.
65/10 Allah has prepared for them severe chastisement,therefore be careful of (your duty to) Allah, O men ofunderstanding who believe! Allah has indeed revealed to youa reminder,
65/11 An Messenger who recites to you the clear communicationsof Allah so that he may bring forth those who believe and dogood deeds from darkness into light; and whoever believes inAllah and does good deeds, He will cause him to entergardens beneath which rivers now, to abide therein forever,Allah has indeed given him a goodly sustenance.
65/12 Allah is He Who created seven heavens, and of the earththe like of them; the decree continues to descend amongthem, that you may know that Allah has power over all thingsand that Allah indeed encompasses all things in (His)knowledge.
