64/1 Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earthdeclares the glory of Allah; to Him belongs the kingdom, andto Him is due (all) praise, and He has power over allthings.
64/2 He it is Who created you, but one of you is an unbelieverand another of you is a believer; and Allah sees what youdo.
64/3 He created the heavens and the earth with truth, and Heformed you, then made goodly your forms, and to Him is theultimate resort.
64/4 He knows what is in the heavens and the earth, and Heknows what you hide and what you manifest;and Allah isCognizant of what is in the hearts.
64/5 Has there not come to you the story of those whodisbelieved before, then tasted the evil result of theirconduct, and they had a painful punishment?
64/6 That is because there came to them their messengers withclear arguments, but they said: Shall mortals guide us? Sothey disbelieved and turned back, and Allah does not standin need (of anything), and Allah is Self-sufficient,Praised.
64/7 Those who disbelieve think that they shall never beraised. Say: Aye! by my Lord! you shall most certainly beraised, then you shall most certainly be informed of whatyou did; and that is easy to Allah.
64/8 Therefore believe in Allah and His Messenger and the Lightwhich We have revealed; and Allah is Aware of what you do.
64/9 On the day that He will gather you for the day ofgathering, that is the day of loss and gain; and whoeverbelieves in Allah and does good, He will remove from him hisevil and cause him to enter gardens beneath which riversflow, to abide therein forever; that is the greatachievement.
64/10 And (as for) those who disbelieve and reject Ourcommunications, they are the inmates of the fire, to abidetherein and evil is the resort.
64/11 No affliction comes about but by Allah's permission; andwhoever believes in Allah, He guides aright his heart; andAllah is Cognizant of all things.
64/12 And obey Allah and obey the Messenger, but if you turnback, then upon Our Messenger devolves only the clear delivery(of the message).
64/13 Allah, there is no god but He; and upon Allah, then, letthe believers rely.
64/14 O you who believe! surely from among your wives and yourchildren there is an enemy to you; therefore beware of them;and if you pardon and forbear and forgive, then surely Allahis Forgiving, Merciful.
64/15 Your possessions and your children are only a trial, andAllah it is with Whom is a great reward.
64/16 Therefore be careful of (your duty to) Allah as much asyou can, and hear and obey and spend, it is better for yoursouls; and whoever is saved from the greediness of his soul,these it is that are the successful.
64/17 If you set apart for Allah a goodly portion, He willdouble it for you and forgive you; and Allah is theMultiplier (of rewards), Forbearing,
64/18 The Knower of the unseen and the seen, the Mighty, theWise.
