39/1 The revelation of the Book is from Allah, the Mighty, theWise.
39/2 Surely We have revealed to you the Book with the truth,therefore serve Allah, being sincere to Him in obedience.
39/3 Now, surely, sincere obedience is due to Allah (alone)and (as for) those who take guardians besides Him, (saying),We do not serve them save that they may make us nearer toAllah, surely Allah will judge between them in that in whichthey differ; surely Allah does not guide him aright who is aliar, ungrateful.
39/4 If Allah desire to take a son to Himself, He will surelychoose those He pleases from what He has created. Glory beto Him: He is Allah, the One, the Subduer (of all).
39/5 He has created the heavens and the earth with the truth;He makes the night cover the day and makes the day overtakethe night, and He has made the sun and the moon subservient;each one runs on to an assigned term; now surely He is theMighty, the great Forgiver.
39/6 He has created you from a single being, then made itsmate of the same (kind), and He has made for you eight ofthe cattle in pairs. He creates you in the wombs of yourmothers-- a creation after a creation-- in triple darkness; thatis Allah your Lord, His is the kingdom; there is no god butHe; whence are you then turned away?
39/7 If you are ungrateful, then surely Allah isSelf-sufficient above all need of you; and He does not likeungratefulness in His servants; and if you are grateful, Helikes it in you; and no bearer of burden shall bear theburden of another; then to your Lord is your return, thenwill He inform you of what you did; surely He is Cognizantof what is in the breasts.
39/8 And when distress afflicts a man he calls upon his Lordturning to Him frequently; then when He makes him possess afavor from Him, he forgets that for which he called upon Himbefore, and sets up rivals to Allah that he may cause (men)to stray off from His path. Say: Enjoy yourself in yourungratefulness a little, surely you are of the inmates ofthe fire.
39/9 What! he who is obedient during hours of the night,prostrating himself and standing, takes care of thehereafter and hopes for the mercy of his Lord! Say: Arethose who know and those who do not know alike? Only the menof understanding are mindful.
39/10 Say: O my servants who believe! be careful of (your dutyto) your Lord; for those who do good in this world is good,and Allah's earth is spacious; only the patient will be paidback their reward in full without measure.
39/11 Say: I am commanded that I should serve Allah, beingsincere to Him in obedience.
39/12 And I am commanded that I shall be the first of thosewho submit.
39/13 Say: I fear, if I disobey my Lord, the chastisement of agrievous day.
39/14 Say: Allah (it is Whom) I serve, being sincere to Him inmy obedience:
39/15 Serve then what you like besides Him. Say: The loserssurely are those who shall have lost themselves and theirfamilies on the day of resurrection; now surely that is theclear loss.
39/16 They shall have coverings of fire above them andcoverings beneath them; with that Allah makes His servantsto fear, so be careful of (your duty to) Me, O My servants!
39/17 And (as for) those who keep off from the worship of theidols and turn to Allah, they shall have good news,therefore give good news to My servants,
39/18 Those who listen to the word, then follow the best ofit; those are they whom Allah has guided, and those it iswho are the men of understanding.
39/19 What! as for him then against whom the sentence ofchastisement is due: What! can you save him who is in thefire?
39/20 But (as for) those who are careful of (their duty to)their Lord, they shall have high places, above them higherplaces, built (for them), beneath which flow rivers; (thisis) the promise of Allah: Allah will not fail in (His)promise.
39/21 Do you not see that Allah sends down water from thecloud, then makes it go along in the earth in springs, thenbrings forth therewith herbage of various colors, then itwithers so that you see it becoming yellow, then He makes ita thing crushed and broken into pieces? Most surely there isa reminder in this for the men of understanding.
39/22 What! is he whose heart Allah has opened for Islam sothat he is in a light from his Lord (like the hard-hearted)?Nay, woe to those whose hearts are hard against theremembrance of Allah; those are in clear error.
39/23 Allah has revealed the best announcement, a bookconformable in its various parts, repeating, whereat doshudder the skins of those who fear their Lord, then theirskins and their hearts become pliant to the remembrance ofAllah; this is Allah's guidance, He guides with it whom Hepleases; and (as for) him whom Allah makes err, there is noguide for him.
39/24 Is he then who has to guard himself with his own personagainst the evil chastisement on the resurrection day? Andit will be said to the unjust: Taste what you earned.
39/25 Those before them rejected (prophets), therefore therecame to them the chastisement from whence they perceivednot.
39/26 So Allah made them taste the disgrace in this world'slife, and certainly the punishment of the hereafter isgreater; did they but know!
39/27 And certainly We have set forth to men in this Quransimilitudes of every sort that they may mind.
39/28 An Arabic Quran without any crookedness, that they mayguard (against evil).
39/29 Allah sets forth an example: There is a slave in whomare (several) partners differing with one another, and thereis another slave wholly owned by one man. Are the two alikein condition? (All) praise is due to Allah. Nay! most ofthem do not know.
39/30 Surely you shall die and they (too) shall surely die.
39/31 Then surely on the day of resurrection you will contendone with another before. your Lord.
39/32 Who is then more unjust than he who utters a lie againstAllah and (he who) gives the lie to the truth when it comesto him; is there not in hell an abode for the unbelievers?
39/33 And he who brings the truth and (he who) accepts it asthe truth-- these are they that guard (against evil).
39/34 They shall have with their Lord what they please; thatis the reward of the doers of good;
39/35 So that Allah will do away with the worst of what theydid and give them their reward for the best of what they do.
39/36 Is not Allah sufficient for His servant? And they seekto frighten you with those besides Him; and whomsoever Allahmakes err, there is no guide for him.
39/37 And whom Allah guides, there is none that can lead himastray; is not Allah Mighty, the Lord of retribution?
39/38 And should you ask them, Who created the heavens and theearth? They would most certainly say: Allah. Say: Have youthen considered that what you call upon besides Allah, wouldthey, if Allah desire to afflict me with harm, be theremovers of His harm, or (would they), if Allah desire toshow me mercy, be the withholders of His mercy? Say: Allahis sufficient for me; on Him do the reliant rely.
39/39 Say: O my people! work in your place, surely I am aworker, so you will come to know.
39/40 Who it is to whom there shall come a punishment whichwill disgrace him and to whom will be due a lastingpunishment.
39/41 Surely We have revealed to you the Book with the truthfor the sake of men; so whoever follows the right way, it isfor his own soul and whoever errs, he errs only to itsdetriment; and you are not a custodian over them.
39/42 Allah takes the souls at the time of their death, andthose that die not during their sleep; then He withholdsthose on whom He has passed the decree of death and sendsthe others back till an appointed term; most surely thereare signs in this for a people who reflect.
39/43 Or have they taken intercessors besides Allah? Say:what! even though they did not ever have control overanything, nor do they understand.
39/44 Say: Allah's is the intercession altogether; His is thekingdom of the heavens and the earth, then to Him you shallbe brought back.
39/45 And when Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts of thosewho do not believe in the hereafter shrink, and when thosebesides Him are mentioned, lo! they are joyful.
39/46 Say: O Allah! Originator of the heavens and the earth,Knower of the unseen and the seen! Thou (only) judgestbetween Thy servants as to that wherein they differ.
39/47 And had those who are unjust all that is in the earthand the like of it with it, they would certainly offer it asransom (to be saved) from the evil of the punishment on theday of resurrection; and what they never thought of shallbecome plain to them from Allah.
39/48 And the evil (consequences) of what they wrought shallbecome plain to them, and the very thing they mocked atshall beset them.
39/49 So when harm afflicts a man he calls upon Us; then, whenWe give him a favor from Us, he says: I have been given itonly by means of knowledge. Nay, it is a trial, but most ofthem do not know.
39/50 Those before them did say it indeed, but what theyearned availed them not.
39/51 So there befell them the evil (consequences) of whatthey earned; and (as for) those who are unjust from amongthese, there shall befall them the evil (consequences) ofwhat they earn, and they shall not escape.
39/52 Do they not know that Allah makes ample the means ofsubsistence to whom He pleases, and He straitens; mostsurely there are signs in this for a people who believe.
39/53 Say: O my servants! who have acted extravagantly againsttheir own souls, do not despair of the mercy of Allah;surely Allah forgives the faults altogether; surely He isthe Forgiving the Merciful.
39/54 And return to your Lord time after time and submit toHim before there comes to you the punishment, then you shallnot be helped.
39/55 And follow the best that has been revealed to you fromyour Lord before there comes to you the punishment all of asudden while you do not even perceive;
39/56 Lest a soul should say: O woe to me! for what I fellshort of my duty to Allah, and most surely I was of thosewho laughed to scorn;
39/57 Or it should say: Had Allah guided me, I would certainlyhave been of those who guard (against evil);
39/58 Or it should say when it sees the punishment: Were thereonly a returning for me, I should be of the doers of good.
39/59 Aye! My communications came to you, but you rejectedthem, and you were proud and you were one of theunbelievers.
39/60 And on the day of resurrection you shall see those wholied against Allah; their faces shall be blackened. Is therenot in hell an abode for the proud?
39/61 And Allah shall deliver those who guard (against evil)with their achievement; evil shall not touch them, nor shallthey grieve.
39/62 Allah is the Creator of every thing and He has chargeover every thing.
39/63 His are the treasures of the heavens and the earth; and(as for) those who disbelieve in the communications ofAllah, these it is that are the losers.
39/64 Say: What! Do you then bid me serve others than Allah, Oignorant men?
39/65 And certainly, it has been revealed to you and to thosebefore you: Surely if you associate (with Allah), your workwould certainly come to naught and you would certainly be ofthe losers.
39/66 Nay! but serve Allah alone and be of the thankful.
39/67 And they have not honored Allah with the honor that isdue to Him; and the whole earth shall be in His grip on theday of resurrection and the heavens rolled up in His righthand; glory be to Him, and may He be exalted above what theyassociate (with Him).
39/68 And the trumpet shall be blown, so all those that are inthe heavens and all those that are in the earth shall swoon,except such as Allah please; then it shall be blown again,then lo! they shall stand up awaiting.
39/69 And the earth shall beam with the light of its Lord, andthe Book shall be laid down, and the prophets and thewitnesses shall be brought up, and judgment shall be givenbetween them with justice, and they shall not be dealt withunjustly.
39/70 And every soul shall be paid back fully what it hasdone, and He knows best what they do.
39/71 And those who disbelieve shall be driven to hell incompanies; until, when they come to it, its doors shall beopened, and the keepers of it shall say to them: Did notthere come to you messengers from among you reciting to youthe communications of your Lord and warning you of themeeting of this day of yours? They shall say: Yea! But thesentence of punishment was due against the unbelievers.
39/72 It shall be said: Enter the gates of hell to abidetherein; so evil is the abode of the proud.
39/73 And those who are careful of (their duty to) their Lordshall be conveyed to the garden in companies; until whenthey come to it, and its doors shall be opened, and thekeepers of it shall say to them: Peace be on you, you shallbe happy; therefore enter it to abide.
39/74 And they shall say: (All) praise is due to Allah, Whohas made good to us His promise, and He has made us inheritthe land; we may abide in the garden where we please; sogoodly is the reward of the workers.
39/75 And you shall see the angels going round about thethrone glorifying the praise of their Lord; and judgmentshall be given between them with justice, and it shall besaid: All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds.
