33/1 O Prophet! Keep thy duty to Allah and obey not thedisbelievers and the hypocrites. Lo! Allah is Knower, Wise.
33/2 And follow that which is inspired in thee from thy Lord. Lo!Allah is Aware of what ye do.
33/3 And put thy trust in Allah, for Allah is sufficient asTrustee.
33/4 Allah hath not assigned unto any man two hearts within hisbody, nor hath He made your wives whom ye declare (to be your mothers) yourmothers, nor hath He made those whom ye claim (to be your sons) your sons.This is but a saying of your mouths. But Allah saith the truth and Heshoweth the way.
33/5 Proclaim their real parentage. That will be more equitable inthe sight of Allah. And if ye know not their fathers, then (they are) yourbrethren in the faith, and your clients. And there is no sin for you in themistakes that ye make unintentionally, but what your hearts purpose (thatwill be a sin for you). Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.
33/6 The Prophet is closer to the believers than their selves, andhis wives are (as) their mothers. And the owners of kinship are closer oneto another in the ordinance of Allah than (other) believers and thefugitives (who fled from Mecca), except that ye should do kindness to yourfriends. This is written in the Book (of nature).
33/7 And when We exacted a covenant from the prophets, and fromthee (O Muhammad) and from Noah and Abraham and Moses and Jesus son ofMary. We took from them a solemn covenant;
33/8 That He may ask the loyal of their loyalty. And He hathprepared a painful doom for the unfaithful.
33/9 O ye who believe! Remember Allah's favour unto you when therecame against you hosts, and We sent against them a great wind and hosts yecould not see. And Allah is ever Seer of what ye do.
33/10 When they came upon you from above you and from below you, andwhen eyes grew wild and hearts reached to the throats, and ye wereimagining vain thoughts concerning Allah.
33/11 There were the believers sorely tried, and shaken with amighty shock.
33/12 And when the hypocrites, and those in whose hearts is adisease, were saying: Allah and His messenger promised us naught butdelusion.
33/13 And when a party of them said: O folk of Yathrib! There is nostand (possible) for you, therefor turn back. And certain of them (even)sought permission of the Prophet, saying: Our homes lie open (to theenemy). And they lay not open. They but wished to flee.
33/14 If the enemy had entered from all sides and they had beenexhorted to treachery, they would have committed it, and would havehesitated thereupon but little.
33/15 And verily they had already sworn unto Allah that they wouldnot turn their backs (to the foe). An oath to Allah must be answered for.
33/16 Say: Flight will not avail you if ye flee from death orkilling, and then ye dwell in comfort but a little while.
33/17 Say: Who is he who can preserve you from Allah if He intendethharm for you, or intendeth mercy for you.  They will not find that theyhave any friend or helper other than Allah.
33/18 Allah already knoweth those of you who hinder, and those whosay unto their brethren: "Come ye hither unto us!" and they come not to thestress of battle save a little,
33/19 Being sparing of their help to you (believers). But when thefear cometh, then thou (Muhammad) seest them regarding thee with rollingeyes like one who fainteth unto death. Then, when the fear departeth, theyscald you with sharp tongues in their greed for wealth (from the spoil).Such have not believed. Therefor Allah maketh their deeds fruitless. Andthat is easy for Allah.
33/20 They hold that the clans have not retired (for good); and ifthe clans should advance (again), they would fain be in the desert with thewandering Arabs, asking for the news of you; and if they were among you,they would not give battle, save a little.
33/21 Verily in the messenger of Allah ye have a good example forhim who looketh unto Allah and the Last Day, and remembereth Allah much.
33/22 And when the true believers saw the clans, they said: This isthat which Allah and His messenger promised us. Allah and His messenger aretrue. It did but confirm them in their faith and resignation.
33/23 Of the believers are men who are true to that which theycovenanted with Allah. Some of them have paid their vow by death (inbattle), and some of them still are waiting; and they have not altered inthe least;
33/24 That Allah may reward the true men for their truth, and punishthe hypocrites if He will, or relent toward them (if He will). Lo! Allah isForgiving, Merciful.
33/25 And Allah repulsed the disbelievers in their wrath; theygained no good. Allah averted their attack from the believers. Allah isever Strong, Mighty.
33/26 And He brought those of the People of the Scripture whosupported them down from their strongholds, and cast panic into theirhearts. Some ye slew, and ye made captive some.
33/27 And He caused you to inherit their land and their houses andtheir wealth, and land ye have not trodden. Allah is ever Able to do allthings.
33/28 O Prophet! Say unto thy wives: If ye desire the world's lifeand its adornment, come! I will content you and will release you with afair release.
33/29 But if ye desire Allah and His messenger and the abode of theHereafter, then lo! Allah hath prepared for the good among you an immensereward.
33/30 O ye wives of the Prophet! Whosoever of you committethmanifest lewdness, the punishment for her will be doubled, and that is easyfor Allah.
33/31 And whosoever of you is submissive unto Allah and Hismessenger and doeth right, We shall give her her reward twice over, and Wehave prepared for her a rich provision.
33/32 O ye wives of the Prophet! Ye are not like any other women. Ifye keep your duty (to Allah), then be not soft of speech, lest he in whoseheart is a disease aspire (to you), but utter customary speech.
33/33 And stay in your houses. Bedizen not yourselves with thebedizenment of the Time of Ignorance. Be regular in prayer, and pay thepoor-due, and obey Allah and His messenger. Allah's wish is but to removeuncleanness far from you, O Folk of the Household, and cleanse you with athorough cleansing.
33/34 And bear in mind that which is recited in your houses of therevelations of Allah and wisdom. Lo! Allah is Subtile, Aware.
33/35 Lo! men who surrender unto Allah, and women who surrender, andmen who believe and women who believe, and men who obey and women who obey,and men who speak the truth and women who speak the truth, and men whopersevere (in righteousness) and women who persevere, and men who arehumble and women who are humble, and men who give alms and women who givealms, and men who fast and women who fast, and men who guard their modestyand women who guard (their modesty), and men who remember Allah much andwomen who remember - Allah hath prepared for them forgiveness and a vastreward.
33/36 And it becometh not a believing man or a believing woman, whenAllah and His messenger have decided an affair (for them), that they should(after that) claim any say in their affair; and whoso is rebellious toAllah and His messenger, he verily goeth astray in error manifest.
33/37 And when thou saidst unto him on whom Allah hath conferredfavour and thou hast conferred favour: Keep thy wife to thyself, and fearAllah. And thou didst hide in thy mind that which Allah was to bring tolight, and thou didst fear mankind whereas Allah hath a better right thatthou shouldst fear Him. So when Zeyd had performed that necessary formality(of divorce) from her, We gave her unto thee in marriage, so that(henceforth) there may be no sin for believers in respect of wives of theiradopted sons, when the latter have performed the necessary formality (ofrelease) from them. The commandment of Allah must be fulfilled.
33/38 There is no reproach for the Prophet in that which Allahmaketh his due. That was Allah's way with those who passed away of old -and the commandment of Allah is certain destiny -
33/39 Who delivered the messages of Allah and feared Him, and fearednone save Allah. Allah keepeth good account.
33/40 Muhammad is not the father of any man among you, but he is themessenger of Allah and the Seal of the Prophets; and Allah is ever Aware ofall things.
33/41 O ye who believe! Remember Allah with much remembrance.
33/42 And glorify Him early and late.
33/43 He it is Who blesseth you, and His angels (bless you), that Hemay bring you forth from darkness unto light; and He is ever Merciful tothe believers.
33/44 Their salutation on the day when they shall meet Him will be:Peace. And He hath prepared for them a goodly recompense.
33/45 O Prophet! Lo! We have sent thee as a witness and a bringer ofgood tidings and a warner.
33/46 And as a summoner unto Allah by His permission, and as a lampthat giveth light.
33/47 And announce unto the believers the good tidings that theywill have great bounty from Allah.
33/48 And incline not to the disbelievers and the hypocrites.Disregard their noxious talk, and put thy trust in Allah. Allah issufficient as Trustee.
33/49 O ye who believe! If ye wed believing women and divorce thembefore ye have touched them, then there is no period that ye should reckon.But content them and release them handsomely.
33/50 O Prophet! Lo! We have made lawful unto thee thy wives untowhom thou hast paid their dowries, and those whom thy right hand possessethof those whom Allah hath given thee as spoils of war, and the daughters ofthine uncle on the father's side and the daughters of thine aunts on thefather's side, and the daughters of thine uncle on the mother's side andthe daughters of thine aunts on the mother's side who emigrated with thee,and a believing woman if she give herself unto the Prophet and the Prophetdesire to ask her in marriage - a privilege for thee only, not for the(rest of) believers - We are Aware of that which We enjoined upon themconcerning their wives and those whom their right hands possess - that thoumayst be free from blame, for Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.
33/51 Thou canst defer whom thou wilt of them and receive unto theewhom thou wilt, and whomsoever thou desirest of those whom thou hast setaside (temporarily), it is no sin for thee (to receive her again); that isbetter; that they may be comforted and not grieve, and may all be pleasedwith what thou givest them. Allah knoweth what is in your hearts (O men),and Allah is ever Forgiving, Clement.
33/52 It is not allowed thee to take (other) women henceforth, northat thou shouldst change them for other wives even though their beautypleased thee, save those whom thy right hand possesseth. And Allah is everWatcher over all things.
33/53 O Ye who believe! Enter not the dwellings of the Prophet for ameal without waiting for the proper time, unless permission be granted you.But if ye are invited, enter, and, when your meal is ended, then disperse.Linger not for conversation. Lo! that would cause annoyance to the Prophet,and he would be shy of (asking) you (to go); but Allah is not shy of thetruth. And when ye ask of them (the wives of the Prophet) anything, ask itof them from behind a curtain. That is purer for your hearts and for theirhearts. And it is not for you to cause annoyance to the messenger of Allah,nor that ye should ever marry his wives after him. Lo! that in Allah'ssight would be an enormity.
33/54 Whether ye divulge a thing or keep it hidden, lo! Allah isever Knower of all things.
33/55 It is no sin for them (thy wives) to converse freely) withtheir fathers, or their sons, or their brothers, or their brothers' sons,or the sons of their sisters or of their own women, or their slaves. Owomen! Keep your duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is ever Witness over all things.
33/56 Lo! Allah and His angels shower blessings on the Prophet. O yewho believe! Ask blessings on him and salute him with a worthy salutation.
33/57 Lo! those who malign Allah and His messenger, Allah hathcursed them in the world and the Hereafter, and hath prepared for them thedoom of the disdained.
33/58 And those who malign believing men and believing womenundeservedly, they bear the guilt of slander and manifest sin.
33/59 O Prophet! Tell thy wives and thy daughters and the women ofthe believers to draw their cloaks close round them (when they go abroad).That will be better, so that they may be recognised and not annoyed. Allahis ever Forgiving, Merciful.
33/60 If the hypocrites, and those in whose hearts is a disease, andthe alarmists in the city do not cease, We verily shall urge thee onagainst them, then they will be your neighbours in it but a little while.
33/61 Accursed, they will be seized wherever found and slain with a(fierce) slaughter.
33/62 That was the way of Allah in the case of those who passed awayof old; thou wilt not find for the way of Allah aught of power to change.
33/63 Men ask thee of the Hour. Say: The knowledge of it is withAllah only. What can convey (the knowledge) unto thee? It may be that theHour is nigh.
33/64 Lo! Allah hath cursed the disbelievers, and hath prepared forthem a flaming fire,
33/65 Wherein they will abide for ever. They will find (then) noprotecting friend nor helper.
33/66 On the day when their faces are turned over in the Fire, theysay: Oh, would that we had obeyed Allah and had obeyed His messenger!
33/67 And they say: Our Lord! Lo! we obeyed our princes and greatmen, and they misled us from the Way.
33/68 Our Lord! Oh, give them double torment and curse them with amighty curse.
33/69 O ye who believe! Be not as those who slandered Moses, butAllah proved his innocence of that which they alleged, and he was wellesteemed in Allah's sight.
33/70 O ye who believe! Guard your duty to Allah, and speak wordsstraight to the point;
33/71 He will adjust your works for you and will forgive you yoursins. Whosoever obeyeth Allah and His messenger, he verily hath gained asignal victory.
33/72 Lo! We offered the trust unto the heavens and the earth andthe hills, but they shrank from bearing it and were afraid of it. And manassumed it. Lo! he hath proved a tyrant and a fool.
33/73 So Allah punisheth hypocritical men and hypocritical women,and idolatrous men and idolatrous women. But Allah pardoneth believing menand believing women, and Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.
