29/1 Alif. Lam. Mim.
29/2 Do men imagine that they will be left (at ease) because theysay, We believe, and will not be tested with affliction?
29/3 Lo! We tested those who were before you. Thus Allah knoweththose who are sincere, and knoweth those who feign.
29/4 Or do those who do ill-deeds imagine that they can outstripUs? Evil (for them) is that which they decide.
29/5 Whoso looketh forward to the meeting with Allah (let him knowthat) Allah's reckoning is surely nigh, and He is the Hearer, the Knower.
29/6 And whosoever striveth, striveth only for himself, for lo!Allah is altogether Independent of (His) creatures.
29/7 And as for those who believe and do good works, We shall remitfrom them their evil deeds and shall repay them the best that they did.
29/8 We have enjoined on man kindness to parents; but if theystrive to make thee join with Me that of which thou hast no knowledge, thenobey them not. Unto Me is your return and I shall tell you what ye used todo.
29/9 And as for those who believe and do good works, We verilyshall make them enter in among the righteous.
29/10 Of mankind is he who saith: We believe in Allah, but, if he bemade to suffer for the sake of Allah, he mistaketh the persecution ofmankind for Allah's punishment; and then, if victory cometh from thy Lord,will say: Lo! we were with you (all the while). Is not Allah Best Aware ofwhat is in the bosoms of (His) creatures?
29/11 Verily Allah knoweth those who believe, and verily He knoweththe hypocrites.
29/12 Those who disbelieve say unto those who believe: Follow ourway (of religion) and we verily will bear your sins (for you). They cannotbear aught of their sins. Lo! they verily are liars.
29/13 But they verily will bear their own loads and other loadsbeside their own, and they verily will be questioned on the Day ofResurrection concerning that which they invented.
29/14 And verily we sent Noah (as Our messenger) unto his folk, andhe continued with them for a thousand years save fifty years; and the floodengulfed them, for they were wrong-doers.
29/15 And We rescued him and those with him in the ship, and made ofit a portent for the peoples.
29/16 And Abraham! (Remember) when he said unto his folk: ServeAllah, and keep your duty unto Him; that is better for you if ye did butknow.
29/17 Ye serve instead of Allah only idols, and ye only invent alie. Lo! those whom ye serve instead of Allah own no provision for you. Soseek your provision from Allah, and serve Him, and give thanks unto Him,(for) unto Him ye will be brought back.
29/18 But if ye deny, then nations have denied before you. Themessenger is only to convey (the message) plainly.
29/19 See they not how Allah produceth creation, then reproducethit? Lo! for Allah that is easy.
29/20 Say (O Muhammad): Travel in the land and see how He originatedcreation, then Allah bringeth forth the later growth. Lo! Allah is Able todo all things.
29/21 He punisheth whom He will and showeth mercy unto whom He will,and unto Him ye will be turned.
29/22 Ye cannot escape (from Him) in the earth or in the sky, andbeside Allah there is for you no friend or helper.
29/23 Those who disbelieve in the revelations of Allah and in(their) Meeting with Him, such have no hope of My mercy. For such there isa painful doom.
29/24 But the answer of his folk was only that they said: "Kill him"or "Burn him." Then Allah saved him from the Fire. Lo! herein verily areportents for folk who believe.
29/25 He said: Ye have chosen only idols instead of Allah. The lovebetween you is only in the life of the world. Then on the Day ofResurrection ye will deny each other and curse each other, and your abodewill be the Fire, and ye will have no helpers.
29/26 And Lot believed him, and said: Lo! I am a fugitive unto myLord. Lo! He, only He, is the Mighty, the Wise.
29/27 And We bestowed on him Isaac and Jacob, and We established theprophethood and the Scripture among his seed, and We gave him his reward inthe world, and lo! in the Hereafter he verily is among the righteous.
29/28 And Lot! (Remember) when he said unto his folk: Lo! ye commitlewdness such as no creature did before you.
29/29 For come ye not in unto males, and cut ye not the road (fortravellers), and commit ye not abomination in your meetings? But the answerof his folk was only that they said: Bring Allah's doom upon us if thou arta truthteller!
29/30 He said: My Lord! Give me victory over folk who workcorruption.
29/31 And when Our messengers brought Abraham the good news, theysaid: Lo! we are about to destroy the people of that township, for itspeople are wrong-doers.
29/32 He said: Lo! Lot is there. They said: We are best aware of whois there. We are to deliver him and his household, all save his wife, whois of those who stay behind.
29/33 And when Our messengers came unto Lot, he was troubled upontheir account, for he could not protect them; but they said: Fear not, norgrieve! Lo! we are to deliver thee and thy household, (all) save thy wife,who is of those who stay behind.
29/34 Lo! We are about to bring down upon the folk of this townshipa fury from the sky because they are evil-livers.
29/35 And verily of that We have left a clear sign for people whohave sense.
29/36 And unto Midian We sent Shu'eyb, their brother. He said: O mypeople! Serve Allah, and look forward to the Last Day, and do not evil,making mischief, in the earth.
29/37 But they denied him, and the dreadful earthquake took them,and morning found them prostrate in their dwelling place.
29/38 And (the tribes of) A'ad and Thamud! (Their fate) is manifestunto you from their (ruined and deserted) dwellings. Satan made their deedsseem fair unto them and so debarred them from the Way, though they werekeen observers.
29/39 And Korah, Pharaoh and Haman! Moses came unto them with clearproofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), but they were boastful in the land. Andthey were not winners (in the race).
29/40 So We took each one in his sin; of them was he on whom We senta hurricane, and of them was he who was overtaken by the (Awful) Cry, andof them was he whom We caused the earth to swallow, and of them was he whomWe drowned. It was not for Allah to wrong them, but they wrongedthemselves.
29/41 The likeness of those who choose other patrons than Allah isas the likeness of the spider when she taketh unto herself a house, and lo!the frailest of all houses is the spider's house, if they but knew.
29/42 Lo! Allah knoweth what thing they invoke instead of Him. He isthe Mighty, the Wise.
29/43 As for these similitudes, We coin them for mankind, but nonewill grasp their meaning save the wise.
29/44 Allah created the heavens and the earth with truth. Lo!therein is indeed a portent for believers.
29/45 Recite that which hath been inspired in thee of the Scripture,and establish worship. Lo! worship preserveth from lewdness and iniquity,but verily remembrance of Allah is more important. And Allah knoweth whatye do.
29/46 And argue not with the People of the Scripture unless it be in(a way) that is better, save with such of them as do wrong; and say: Webelieve in that which hath been revealed unto us and revealed unto you; ourAllah and your Allah is One, and unto Him we surrender.
29/47 In like manner We have revealed unto thee the Scripture, andthose unto whom We gave the Scripture aforetime will believe therein; andof these (also) there are some who believe therein. And none deny Ourrevelations save the disbelievers.
29/48 And thou (O Muhammad) wast not a reader of any scripturebefore it, nor didst thou write it with thy right hand, for then mightthose have doubted, who follow falsehood.
29/49 But it is clear revelations in the hearts of those who havebeen given knowledge, and none deny Our revelations save wrong-doers.
29/50 And they say: Why are not portents sent down upon him from hisLord? Say: Portents are with Allah only, and I am but a plain warner.
29/51 Is it not enough for them that We have sent down unto thee theScripture which is read unto them? Lo! herein verily is mercy, and areminder for folk who believe.
29/52 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Allah sufficeth for witnessbetween me and you. He knoweth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth.And those who believe in vanity and disbelieve in Allah, they it is who arethe losers.
29/53 They bid thee hasten on the doom (of Allah). And if a term hadnot been appointed, the doom would assuredly have come unto them (ere now).And verily it will come upon them suddenly when they perceive not.
29/54 They bid thee hasten on the doom, when lo! hell verily willencompass the disbelievers
29/55 On the day when the doom will overwhelm them from above themand from underneath their feet, and He will say: Taste what ye used to do!
29/56 O my bondmen who believe! Lo! My earth is spacious. Thereforserve Me only.
29/57 Every soul will taste of death. Then unto Us ye will bereturned.
29/58 Those who believe and do good works, them verily We shallhouse in lofty dwellings of the Garden underneath which rivers flow. Therethey will dwell secure. How sweet the guerdon of the toilers,
29/59 Who persevere, and put their trust in their Lord!
29/60 And how many an animal there is that beareth not its ownprovision! Allah provideth for it and for you. He is the Hearer, theKnower.
29/61 And if thou wert to ask them: Who created the heavens and theearth, and constrained the sun and the moon (to their appointed work)? theywould say: Allah. How then are they turned away?
29/62 Allah maketh the provision wide for whom He will of Hisbondmen, and straiteneth it for whom (He will). Lo! Allah is Aware of allthings.
29/63 And if thou wert to ask them: Who causeth water to come downfrom the sky, and therewith reviveth the earth after its death? they verilywould say: Allah. Say: Praise be to Allah! But most of them have no sense.
29/64 This life of the world is but a pastime and a game. Lo! thehome of the Hereafter - that is Life, if they but knew.
29/65 And when they mount upon the ships they pray to Allah, makingtheir faith pure for Him only, but when He bringeth them safe to land,behold! they ascribe partners (unto Him),
29/66 That they may disbelieve in that which We have given them, andthat they may take their ease. But they will come to know.
29/67 Have they not seen that We have appointed a sanctuary immune(from violence), while mankind are ravaged all around them? Do they thenbelieve in falsehood and disbelieve in the bounty of Allah?
29/68 Who doeth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lie concerningAllah, or denieth the truth when it cometh unto him? Is not there a home inhell for disbelievers?
29/69 As for those who strive in Us, We surely guide them to Ourpaths, and lo! Allah is with the good.
