45/1 Ha. Mim.
45/2 The revelation of the Scripture is from Allah, the Mighty, theWise.
45/3 Lo! in the heavens and the earth are portents for believers.
45/4 And in your creation, and all the beasts that He scattereth inthe earth, are portents for a folk whose faith is sure.
45/5 And the difference of night and day and the provision thatAllah sendeth down from the sky and thereby quickeneth the earth after herdeath, and the ordering of the winds, are portents for a people who havesense.
45/6 These are the portents of Allah which We recite unto thee(Muhammad) with truth. Then in what fact, after Allah and His portents,will they believe?
45/7 Woe unto each sinful liar,
45/8 Who heareth the revelations of Allah recited unto him, andthen continueth in pride as though he heard them not. Give him tidings of apainful doom.
45/9 And when he knoweth aught of Our revelations he maketh it ajest. For such there is a shameful doom.
45/10 Beyond them there is hell, and that which they have earnedwill naught avail them, nor those whom they have chosen for protectingfriends beside Allah. Theirs will be an awful doom.
45/11 This is guidance. And those who disbelieve the revelations oftheir Lord, for them there is a painful doom of wrath.
45/12 Allah it is Who hath made the sea of service unto you that theships may run thereon by His command, and that ye may seek of His bounty,and that haply ye may be thankful;
45/13 And hath made of service unto you whatsoever is in the heavensand whatsoever is in the earth; it is all from Him. Lo! herein verily areportents for a people who reflect.
45/14 Tell those who believe to forgive those who hope not for thedays of Allah; in order that He may requite folk what they used to earn.
45/15 Whoso doeth right, it is for his soul, and whoso doeth wrong,it is against it. And afterward unto your Lord ye will be brought back.
45/16 And verily we gave the Children of Israel the Scripture andthe Command and the Prophethood, and provided them with good things andfavoured them above (all) peoples;
45/17 And gave them plain commandments. And they differed not untilafter the knowledge came unto them, through rivalry among themselves. Lo!thy Lord will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection concerning thatwherein they used to differ.
45/18 And now have We set thee (O Muhammad) on a clear road of (Our)commandment; so follow it, and follow not the whims of those who know not.
45/19 Lo! they can avail thee naught against Allah. And lo! as forthe wrong-doers, some of them are friends of others; and Allah is theFriend of those who ward off (evil).
45/20 This is clear indication for mankind, and a guidance and amercy for a folk whose faith is sure.
45/21 Or do those who commit ill-deeds suppose that We shall makethem as those who believe and do good works, the same in life and death?Bad is their judgment!
45/22 And Allah hath created the heavens and the earth with truth,and that every soul may be repaid what it hath earned. And they will not bewronged.
45/23 Hast thou seen him who maketh his desire his god, and Allahsendeth him astray purposely, and sealeth up his hearing and his heart, andsetteth on his sight a covering? Then who will lead him after Allah (hathcondemned him)? Will ye not then heed?
45/24 And they say: There is naught but our life of the world; wedie and we live, and naught destroyeth us save time; when they have noknowledge whatsoever of (all) that; they do but guess.
45/25 And when Our clear revelations are recited unto them theironly argument is that they say: Bring (back) our fathers. then, if ye aretruthful.
45/26 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Allah giveth life to you, thencauseth you to die, then gathereth you unto the Day of Resurrection whereofthere is no doubt. But most of mankind know not.
45/27 And unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens andthe earth; and on the day when the Hour riseth, on that day those whofollow falsehood will be lost.
45/28 And thou wilt see each nation crouching, each nation summonedto its record. (And it will be said unto them): This day ye are requitedwhat ye used to do.
45/29 This Our Book pronounceth against you with truth. Lo! We havecaused (all) that ye did to be recorded.
45/30 Then, as for those who believed and did good works, their Lordwill bring them in unto His mercy. That is the evident triumph.
45/31 And as for those who disbelieved (it will be said unto them):Were not Our revelations recited unto you? But ye were scornful and becamea guilty folk.
45/32 And when it was said: Lo! Allah's promise is the truth, andthere is no doubt of the Hour's coming, ye said: We know not what the Houris. We deem it naught but a conjecture, and we are by no means convinced.
45/33 And the evils of what they did will appear unto them, and thatwhich they used to deride will befall them.
45/34 And it will be said: This day We forget you, even as ye forgotthe meeting of this your day; and your habitation is the Fire, and there isnone to help you.
45/35 This, forasmuch as ye made the revelations of Allah a jest,and the life of the world beguiled you. Therefor this day they come notforth from thence, nor can they make amends.
45/36 Then praise be to Allah, Lord of the heavens and Lord of theearth, the Lord of the Worlds.
45/37 And unto Him (alone) belongeth Majesty in the heavens and theearth, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
