72/1 Say (O Muhammad): It is revealed unto me that a company of theJinn gave ear, and they said: Lo! we have heard a marvellous Qur'an,
72/2 Which guideth unto righteousness, so we believe in it and weascribe no partner unto our Lord.
72/3 And (we believe) that He - exalted be the glory of our Lord! -hath taken neither wife nor son,
72/4 And that the foolish one among us used to speak concerningAllah an atrocious lie.
72/5 And lo! we had supposed that humankind and jinn would notspeak a lie concerning Allah -
72/6 And indeed (O Muhammad) individuals of humankind used toinvoke the protection of individuals of the jinn, so that they increasedthem in revolt against Allah);
72/7 And indeed they supposed, even as ye suppose, that Allah wouldnot raise anyone (from the dead) -
72/8 And (the Jinn who had listened to the Qur'an said): We hadsought the heaven but had found it filled with strong warders and meteors.
72/9 And we used to sit on places (high) therein to listen. But hewho listeneth now findeth a flame in wait for him;
72/10 And we know not whether harm is boded unto all who are in theearth, or whether their Lord intendeth guidance for them.
72/11 And among us there are righteous folk and among us there arefar from that. We are sects having different rules.
72/12 And we know that we cannot escape from Allah in the earth, norcan we escape by flight.
72/13 And when we heard the guidance, we believed therein, and whosobelieveth in his Lord, he feareth neither loss nor oppression.
72/14 And there are among us some who have surrendered (to Allah)and there are among us some who are unjust. And whoso hath surrendered toAllah, such have taken the right path purposefully.
72/15 And as for those who are unjust, they are firewood for hell.
72/16 If they (the idolaters) tread the right path, We shall givethem to drink of water in abundance
72/17 That We may test them thereby, and whoso turneth away from theremembrance of his Lord; He will thrust him into ever-growing torment.
72/18 And the places of worship are only for Allah, so pray not untoanyone along with Allah.
72/19 And when the slave of Allah stood up in prayer to Him, theycrowded on him, almost stifling.
72/20 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): I pray unto Allah only, andascribe unto Him no partner.
72/21 Say: Lo! I control not hurt nor benefit for you.
72/22 Say: Lo! none can protect me from Allah, nor can I find anyrefuge beside Him
72/23 (Mine is) but conveyance (of the Truth) from Allah, and Hismessages; and whoso disobeyeth Allah and His messenger, lo! his is fire ofhell, wherein such dwell for ever.
72/24 Till (the day) when they shall behold that which they arepromised (they may doubt); but then they will know (for certain) who isweaker in allies and less in multitude.
72/25 Say (O Muhammad, unto the disbelievers): I know not whetherthat which ye are promised is nigh, or if my Lord hath set a distant termfor it.
72/26 (He is) the Knower of the Unseen, and He revealeth unto noneHis secret,
72/27 Save unto every messenger whom He hath chosen, and then Hemaketh a guard to go before him and a guard behind him
72/28 That He may know that they have indeed conveyed the messagesof their Lord. He surroundeth all their doings, and He keepeth count of allthings.
