8/1 They ask thee (O Muhammad) of the spoils of war. Say: Thespoils of war belong to Allah and the messenger, so keep your duty toAllah, and adjust the matter of your difference, and obey Allah and Hismessenger, if ye are (true) believers.
8/2 They only are the (true) believers whose hearts feel fear whenAllah is mentioned, and when His revelations are recited unto them theyincrease their faith, and who trust in their Lord;
8/3 Who establish worship and spend of that We have bestowed onthem.
8/4 Those are they who are in truth believers. For them are grades(of honour) with their Lord, and pardon, and a bountiful provision.
8/5 Even as thy Lord caused thee (Muhammad) to go forth from thyhome with the Truth, and lo! a party of the believers were averse (to it).
8/6 Disputing with thee of the Truth after it had been mademanifest, as if they were being driven to death visible.
8/7 And when Allah promised you one of the two bands (of theenemy) that it should be yours, and ye longed that other than the armed onemight be yours. And Allah willed that He should cause the Truth to triumphby His words, and cut the root of the disbelievers;
8/8 That He might cause the Truth to triumph and bring vanity tonaught, however much the guilty might oppose;
8/9 When ye sought help of your Lord and He answered you (saying):I will help you with a thousand of the angels, rank on rank.
8/10 Allah appointed it only as good tidings, and that your heartsthereby might be at rest. Victory cometh only by the help of Allah. Lo!Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/11 When He made the slumber fall upon you as a reassurance fromhim and sent down water from the sky upon you, that thereby He might purifyyou, and remove from you the fear of Satan, and make strong your hearts andfirm (your) feet thereby.
8/12 When thy Lord inspired the angels, (saying): I am with you. Somake those who believe stand firm. I will throw fear into the hearts ofthose who disbelieve. Then smite the necks and smite of them each finger.
8/13 That is because they opposed Allah and His messenger. Whosoopposeth Allah and His messenger, (for him) lo! Allah is severe inpunishment.
8/14 That (is the award), so taste it, and (know) that fordisbelievers is the torment of the Fire.
8/15 O ye who believe! When ye meet those who disbelieve in battle,turn not your backs to them.
8/16 Whoso on that day turneth his back to them, unless manoeuvringfor battle or intent to join a company, he truly hath incurred wrath fromAllah, and his habitation will be hell, a hapless journey's end.
8/17 Ye (Muslims) slew them not, but Allah slew them. And thou(Muhammad) threwest not when thou didst throw, but Allah threw, that Hemight test the believers by a fair test from Him. Lo! Allah is Hearer,Knower.
8/18 That (is the case); and (know) that Allah (it is) Who makethweak the plan of disbelievers.
8/19 (O Qureysh!) If ye sought a judgment, now hath the judgmentcome unto you. And if ye cease (from persecuting the believers) it will bebetter for you, but if ye return (to the attack) We also shall return. Andyour host will avail you naught, however numerous it be, and (know) thatAllah is with the believers (in His Guidance).
8/20 O ye who believe! Obey Allah and His messenger, and turn notaway from him when ye hear (him speak).
8/21 Be not as those who say, we hear, and they hear not.
8/22 Lo! the worst of beasts in Allah's sight are the deaf, thedumb, who have no sense.
8/23 Had Allah known of any good in them He would have made themhear, but had He made them hear they would have turned away, averse.
8/24 O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and the messenger when Hecalleth you to that which quickeneth you, and know that Allah cometh inbetween the man and his own heart, and that He it is unto Whom ye will begathered.
8/25 And guard yourselves against a chastisement which cannot fallexclusively on those of you who are wrong-doers, and know that Allah issevere in punishment.
8/26 And remember, when ye were few and reckoned feeble in theland, and were in fear lest men should extirpate you, how He gave yourefuge, and strengthened you with His help, and made provision of goodthings for you, that haply ye might be thankful.
8/27 O ye who believe! Betray not Allah and His messenger, norknowingly betray your trusts.
8/28 And know that your possessions and your children are a test,and that with Allah is immense reward.
8/29 O ye who believe! If ye keep your duty to Allah, He will giveyou discrimination (between right and wrong) and will rid you of your evilthoughts and deeds, and will forgive you. Allah is of Infinite Bounty.
8/30 And when those who disbelieve plot against thee (O Muhammad)to wound thee fatally, or to kill thee or to drive thee forth; they plot,but Allah (also) plotteth; and Allah is the best of plotters.
8/31 And when Our revelations are recited unto them they say: Wehave heard. If we wish we can speak the like of this. Lo! this is naughtbut fables of the men of old.
8/32 And when they said: O Allah! If this be indeed the truth fromThee, then rain down stones on us or bring on us some painful doom!
8/33 But Allah would not punish them while thou wast with them, norwill He punish them while they seek forgiveness.
8/34 What (plea) have they that Allah should not punish them, whenthey debar (His servants) from the Inviolable Place of Worship, though theyare not its fitting guardians. Its fitting guardians are those only whokeep their duty to Allah. But most of them know not.
8/35 And their worship at the (holy) House is naught but whistlingand hand-clapping. Therefore (it is said unto them): Taste of the doombecause ye disbelieve.
8/36 Lo! those who disbelieve spend their wealth in order that theymay debar (men) from the way of Allah. They will spend it, then it willbecome an anguish for them, then they will be conquered. And those whodisbelieve will be gathered unto hell,
8/37 That Allah may separate the wicked from the good, The wickedwill He place piece upon piece, and heap them all together, and consignthem unto hell. Such verily are the losers.
8/38 Tell those who disbelieve that if they cease (from persecutionof believers) that which is past will be forgiven them; but if they return(thereto) then the example of the men of old hath already gone (beforethem, for a warning).
8/39 And fight them until persecution is no more, and religion isall for Allah. But if they cease, then lo! Allah is Seer of what they do.
8/40 And if they turn away, then know that Allah is your Befriender- a Transcendent Patron, a Transcendent Helper!
8/41 And know that whatever ye take as spoils of war, lo! a fifththereof is for Allah, and for the messenger and for the kinsman (who hathneed) and orphans and the needy and the wayfarer, if ye believe in Allahand that which We revealed unto Our slave on the Day of Discrimination, theday when the two armies met. And Allah is Able to do all things.
8/42 When ye were on the near bank (of the valley) and they were onthe yonder bank, and the caravan was below you (on the coast plain). Andhad ye trysted to meet one another ye surely would have failed to keep thetryst, but (it happened, as it did, without the forethought of either ofyou) that Allah might conclude a thing that must be done; that he whoperished (on that day) might perish by a clear proof (of His Sovereignty)and he who survived might survive by a clear proof (of His Sovereignty).Lo! Allah in truth is Hearer, Knower.
8/43 When Allah showed them unto thee (O Muhammad) in thy dream asfew in number, and if He had shown them to thee as many, ye (Muslims) wouldhave faltered and would have quarrelled over the affair. But Allah saved(you). Lo! He knoweth what is in the breasts (of men).
8/44 And when He made you (Muslims), when ye met (them), see themwith your eyes as few, and lessened you in their eyes, (it was) that Allahmight conclude a thing that must be done. Unto Allah all things are broughtback.
8/45 O ye who believe! When ye meet an army, hold firm and think ofAllah much, that ye may be successful.
8/46 And obey Allah and His messenger, and dispute not one withanother lest ye falter and your strength depart from you; but be steadfast!Lo! Allah is with the steadfast.
8/47 Be not as those who came forth from their dwellings boastfullyand to be seen of men, and debar (men) from the way of Allah, while Allahis surrounding all they do.
8/48 And when Satan made their deeds seem fair to them and said:No-one of mankind can conquer you this day, for I am your protector. Butwhen the armies came in sight of one another, he took flight, saying: Lo! Iam guiltless of you. Lo! I see that which ye see not. Lo! I fear Allah. AndAllah is severe in punishment.
8/49 When the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is a diseasesaid: Their religion hath deluded these. Whoso putteth his trust in Allah(will find that) lo! Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/50 If thou couldst see how the angels receive those whodisbelieve, smiting faces and their backs and (saying): Taste thepunishment of burning!
8/51 This is for that which your own hands have sent before (to theJudgment), and (know) that Allah is not a tyrant to His slaves.
8/52 (Their way is) as the way of Pharaoh's folk and those beforethem; they disbelieved the revelations of Allah, and Allah took them intheir sins. Lo! Allah is Strong, severe in punishment.
8/53 That is because Allah never changeth the grace He hathbestowed on any people until they first change that which is in theirhearts, and (that is) because Allah is Hearer, Knower.
8/54 (Their way is) as the way of Pharaoh's folk and those beforethem; they denied the revelations of their Lord, so We destroyed them intheir sins. And We drowned the folk of Pharaoh. All were evil-doers.
8/55 Lo! the worst of beasts in Allah's sight are the ungratefulwho will not believe.
8/56 Those of them with whom thou madest a treaty, and then atevery opportunity they break their treaty, and they keep not duty (toAllah).
8/57 If thou comest on them in the war, deal with them so as tostrike fear in those who are behind them, that haply they may remember.
8/58 And if thou fearest treachery from any folk, then throw backto them (their treaty) fairly. Lo! Allah loveth not the treacherous.
8/59 And let not those who disbelieve suppose that they canoutstrip (Allah's Purpose). Lo! they cannot escape.
8/60 Make ready for them all thou canst of (armed) force and ofhorses tethered, that thereby ye may dismay the enemy of Allah and yourenemy, and others beside them whom ye know not. Allah knoweth them.Whatsoever ye spend in the way of Allah it will be repaid to you in full,and ye will not be wronged.
8/61 And if they incline to peace, incline thou also to it, andtrust in Allah. Lo! He, even He, is the Hearer, the Knower.
8/62 And if they would deceive thee, then lo! Allah is Sufficientfor thee. He it is Who supporteth thee with His help and with thebelievers,
8/63 And (as for the believers) hath attuned their hearts. If thouhadst spent all that is in the earth thou couldst not have attuned theirhearts, but Allah hath attuned them. Lo! He is Mighty, Wise.
8/64 O Prophet! Allah is Sufficient for thee and those who followthee of the believers.
8/65 O Prophet! Exhort the believers to fight. If there be of youtwenty steadfast they shall overcome two hundred, and if there be of you ahundred (steadfast) they shall overcome a thousand of those who disbelieve,because they (the disbelievers) are a folk without intelligence.
8/66 Now hath Allah lightened your burden, for He knoweth thatthere is weakness in you. So if there be of you a steadfast hundred theyshall overcome two hundred, and if there be of you a thousand (steadfast)they shall overcome two thousand by permission of Allah. Allah is with thesteadfast.
8/67 It is not for any prophet to have captives until he hath madeslaughter in the land. Ye desire the lure of this world and Allah desireth(for you) the Hereafter, and Allah is Mighty, Wise.
8/68 Had it not been for an ordinance of Allah which had gonebefore, an awful doom had come upon you on account of what ye took.
8/69 Now enjoy what ye have won, as lawful and good, and keep yourduty to Allah. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
8/70 O Prophet! Say unto those captives who are in your hands: IfAllah knoweth any good in your hearts He will give you better than thatwhich hath been taken from you, and will forgive you. Lo! Allah isForgiving, Merciful.
8/71 And if they would betray thee, they betrayed Allah before, andHe gave (thee) power over them. Allah is Knower, Wise.
8/72 Lo! those who believed and left their homes and strove withtheir wealth and their lives for the cause of Allah, and those who tookthem in and helped them: these are protecting friends one of another. Andthose who believed but did not leave their homes, ye have no duty toprotect them till they leave their homes; but if they seek help from you inthe matter of religion then it is your duty to help (them) except against afolk between whom and you there is a treaty. Allah is Seer of what ye do.
8/73 And those who disbelieve are protectors one of another - If yedo not so, there will be confusion in the land, and great corruption.
8/74 Those who believed and left their homes and strove for thecause of Allah, and those who took them in and helped them - these are thebelievers in truth. For them is pardon, and bountiful provision.
8/75 And those who afterwards believed and left their homes andstrove along with you, they are of you; and those who are akin are nearerone to another in the ordinance of Allah. Lo! Allah is Knower of allthings.
