35/1 Praise be to Allah, the Creator of the heavens and the earth,Who appointeth the angels messengers having wings two, three and four. Hemultiplieth in creation what He will. Lo! Allah is Able to do all things.
35/2 That which Allah openeth unto mankind of mercy none canwithhold it; and that which He withholdeth none can release thereafter. Heis the Mighty, the Wise.
35/3 O mankind! Remember Allah's grace toward you! Is there anycreator other than Allah who provideth for you from the sky and the earth?There is no Allah save Him. Whither then are ye turned?
35/4 And if they deny thee, (O Muhammad), messengers (of Allah)were denied before thee. Unto Allah all things are brought back.
35/5 O mankind! Lo! the promise of Allah is true. So let not thelife of the world beguile you, and let not the (avowed) beguiler beguileyou with regard to Allah.
35/6 Lo! the devil is an enemy for you, so treat him as an enemy.He only summoneth his faction to be owners of the flaming Fire.
35/7 Those who disbelieve, theirs will be an awful doom; and thosewho believe and do good works, theirs will be forgiveness and a greatreward.
35/8 Is he, the evil of whose deeds is made fairseeming unto him sothat he deemeth it good, (other than Satan's dupe)? Allah verily sendethwhom He will astray, and guideth whom He will; so let not thy soul expirein sighings for them. Lo! Allah is Aware of what they do!
35/9 And Allah it is Who sendeth the winds and they raise a cloud;then We lead it unto a dead land and revive therewith the earth after itsdeath. Such is the Resurrection.
35/10 Whoso desireth power (should know that) all power belongeth toAllah. Unto Him good words ascend, and the pious deed doth He exalt; butthose who plot iniquities, theirs will be an awful doom; and the plottingof such (folk) will come to naught.
35/11 Allah created you from dust, then from a little fluid, then Hemade you pairs (the male and female). No female beareth or bringeth forthsave with His knowledge. And no-one groweth old who groweth old, nor isaught lessened of his life, but it is recorded in a Book, Lo! that is easyfor Allah.
35/12 And the two seas are not alike: this, fresh, sweet, good todrink, this (other) bitter, salt. And from them both ye eat fresh meat andderive the ornament that ye wear. And thou seest the ship cleaving themwith its prow that ye may seek of His bounty, and that haply ye may givethanks.
35/13 He maketh the night to pass into the day and He maketh the dayto pass into the night. He hath subdued the sun and moon to service. Eachrunneth unto an appointed term. Such is Allah, your Lord; His is theSovereignty; and those unto whom ye pray instead of Him own not so much asthe white spot on a date-stone.
35/14 If ye pray unto them they hear not your prayer, and if theyheard they could not grant it you. On the Day of Resurrection they willdisown association with you. None can inform you like Him Who is Aware.
35/15 O mankind! Ye are the poor in your relation to Allah. AndAllah! He is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.
35/16 If He will, He can be rid of you and bring (instead of you)some new creation.
35/17 That is not a hard thing for Allah.
35/18 And no burdened soul can bear another's burden, and if oneheavy laden crieth for (help with) his load, naught of it will be liftedeven though he (unto whom he crieth) be of kin. Thou warnest only those whofear their Lord in secret, and have established worship. He who groweth (ingoodness), groweth only for himself, (he cannot by his merit redeemothers). Unto Allah is the journeying.
35/19 The blind man is not equal with the seer;
35/20 Nor is darkness (tantamount to) light;
35/21 Nor is the shadow equal with the sun's full heat;
35/22 Nor are the living equal with the dead. Lo! Allah maketh whomHe will to hear. Thou canst not reach those who are in the graves.
35/23 Thou art but a warner.
35/24 Lo! We have sent thee with the Truth, a bearer of glad tidingsand a warner; and there is not a nation but a warner hath passed amongthem.
35/25 And if they deny thee, those before them also denied. Theirmessengers came unto them with clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), andwith the Psalms and the Scripture giving light.
35/26 Then seized I those who disbelieved, and how intense was Myabhorrence!
35/27 Hast thou not seen that Allah causeth water to fall from thesky, and We produce therewith fruit of divers hues; and among the hills arestreaks white and red, of divers hues, and (others) raven-black;
35/28 And of men and beasts and cattle, in like manner, divers hues?The erudite among His bondmen fear Allah alone. Lo! Allah is Mighty,Forgiving.
35/29 Lo! those who read the Scripture of Allah, and establishworship, and spend of that which We have bestowed on them secretly andopenly, they look forward to imperishable gain,
35/30 That He will pay them their wages and increase them of Hisgrace. Lo! He is Forgiving, Responsive.
35/31 As for that which We inspire in thee of the Scripture, it isthe Truth confirming that which was (revealed) before it. Lo! Allah isindeed Observer, Seer of His slaves.
35/32 Then We gave the Scripture as inheritance unto those whom Weelected of Our bondmen. But of them are some who wrong themselves and ofthem are some who are lukewarm, and of them are some who outstrip (others)through good deeds, by Allah's leave. That is the great favour!
35/33 Gardens of Eden! They enter them wearing armlets of gold andpearl and their raiment therein is silk.
35/34 And they say: Praise be to Allah Who hath put grief away fromus. Lo! Our Lord is Forgiving, Bountiful,
35/35 Who, of His grace, hath installed us in the mansion ofeternity, where toil toucheth us not nor can weariness affect us.
35/36 But as for those who disbelieve, for them is fire of hell; ittaketh not complete effect upon them so that they can die, nor is itstorment lightened for them. Thus We punish every ingrate.
35/37 And they cry for help there, (saying): Our Lord! Release us;we will do right, not (the wrong) that we used to do. Did not We grant youa life long enough for him who reflected to reflect therein? And the warnercame unto you. Now taste (the flavour of your deeds), for evil-doers haveno helper.
35/38 Lo! Allah is the Knower of the Unseen of the heavens and theearth. Lo! He is Aware of the secret of (men's) breasts.
35/39 He it is Who hath made you regents in the earth; so he whodisbelieveth, his disbelief be on his own head. Their disbelief increasethfor the disbelievers, in their Lord's sight, naught save abhorrence. Theirdisbelief increaseth for the disbelievers naught save loss.
35/40 Say: Have ye seen your partner-gods to whom ye pray besideAllah? Show me what they created of the earth! Or have they any portion inthe heavens? Or have We given them a scripture so they act on clear prooftherefrom? Nay, the evil-doers promise one another only to deceive.
35/41 Lo! Allah graspeth the heavens and the earth that they deviatenot, and if they were to deviate there is not one that could grasp themafter Him. Lo! He is ever Clement, Forgiving.
35/42 And they swore by Allah, their most binding oath, that if awarner came unto them they would be more tractable than any of the nations;yet, when a warner came unto them it aroused in them naught saverepugnance,
35/43 (Shown in their) behaving arrogantly in the land and plottingevil; and the evil plot encloseth but the men who make it. Then, can theyexpect aught save the treatment of the folk of old? Thou wilt not find forAllah's way of treatment any substitute, nor wilt thou find for Allah's wayof treatment aught of power to change.
35/44 Have they not travelled in the land and seen the nature of theconsequence for those who were before them, and they were mightier thanthese in power? Allah is not such that aught in the heavens or in the earthescapeth Him. Lo! He is the Wise, the Mighty.
35/45 If Allah took mankind to task by that which they deserve, Hewould not leave a living creature on the surface of the earth; but Hereprieveth them unto an appointed term, and when their term cometh - thenverily (they will know that) Allah is ever Seer of His slaves.
