48/1 Lo! We have given thee (O Muhammad) a signal victory,
48/2 That Allah may forgive thee of thy sin that which is past andthat which is to come, and may perfect His favour unto thee, and may guidethee on a right path,
48/3 And that Allah may help thee with strong help -
48/4 He it is Who sent down peace of reassurance into the hearts ofthe believers that they might add faith unto their faith. Allah's are thehosts of the heavens and the earth, and Allah is ever Knower, Wise -
48/5 That He may bring the believing men and the believing womeninto Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide, and mayremit from them their evil deeds -  That, in the sight of Allah, is thesupreme triumph -
48/6 And may punish the hypocritical men and the hypocriticalwomen, and the idolatrous men and the idolatrous women, who think an evilthought concerning Allah. For them is the evil turn of fortune, and Allahis wroth against them and hath cursed them, and hath made ready for themhell, a hapless journey's end.
48/7 Allah's are the hosts of the heavens and the earth, and Allahis ever Mighty, Wise.
48/8 Lo! We have sent thee (O Muhammad) as a witness and a bearerof good tidings and a warner,
48/9 That ye (mankind) may believe in Allah and His messenger, andmay honour Him, and may revere Him, and may glorify Him at early dawn andat the close of day.
48/10 Lo! those who swear allegiance unto thee (Muhammad), swearallegiance only unto Allah. The Hand of Allah is above their hands. Sowhosoever breaketh his oath, breaketh it only to his soul's hurt; whilewhosoever keepeth his covenant with Allah, on him will He bestow immensereward.
48/11 Those of the wandering Arabs who were left behind will tellthee: Our possessions and our households occupied us, so ask forgivenessfor us! They speak with their tongues that which is not in their hearts.Say: Who can avail you aught against Allah, if He intend you hurt or intendyou profit? Nay, but Allah is ever Aware of what ye do.
48/12 Nay, but ye deemed that the messenger and the believers wouldnever return to their own folk, and that was made fairseeming in yourhearts, and ye did think an evil thought, and ye were worthless folk.
48/13 And so for him who believeth not in Allah and His messenger -Lo! We have prepared a flame for disbelievers.
48/14 And Allah's is the Sovereignty of the heavens and the earth.He forgiveth whom He will, and punisheth whom He will. And Allah is everForgiving, Merciful.
48/15 Those who were left behind will say, when ye set forth tocapture booty: Let us go with you. They fain would change the verdict ofAllah. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Ye shall not go with us. Thus hathAllah said beforehand. Then they will say: Ye are envious of us. Nay, butthey understand not, save a little.
48/16 Say unto those of the wandering Arabs who were left behind: Yewill be called against a folk of mighty prowess, to fight them until theysurrender; and if ye obey, Allah will give you a fair reward; but if yeturn away as ye did turn away before, He will punish you with a painfuldoom.
48/17 There is no blame for the blind, nor is there blame for thelame, nor is there blame for the sick (that they go not forth to war). Andwhoso obeyeth Allah and His messenger, He will make him enter Gardensunderneath which rivers flow; and whoso turneth back, him will He punishwith a painful doom.
48/18 Allah was well pleased with the believers when they sworeallegiance unto thee beneath the tree, and He knew what was in theirhearts, and He sent down peace of reassurance on them, and hath rewardedthem with a near victory;
48/19 And much booty that they will capture. Allah is ever Mighty,Wise.
48/20 Allah promiseth you much booty that ye will capture, and hathgiven you this in advance, and hath withheld men's hands from you, that itmay be a token for the believers, and that He may guide you on a rightpath.
48/21 And other (gain), which ye have not been able to achieve,Allah will compass it, Allah is Able to do all things.
48/22 And if those who disbelieve join battle with you they willtake to flight, and afterward they will find no protecting friend norhelper.
48/23 It is the law of Allah which hath taken course aforetime. Thouwilt not find for the law of Allah aught of power to change.
48/24 And He it is Who hath withheld men's hands from you, and hathwithheld your hands from them, in the valley of Mecca, after He had madeyou victors over them. Allah is Seer of what ye do.
48/25 These it was who disbelieved and debarred you from theInviolable Place of Worship, and debarred the offering from reaching itsgoal. And if it had not been for believing men and believing women, whom yeknow not - lest ye should tread them under foot and thus incur guilt forthem unknowingly; that Allah might bring into His mercy whom He will - If(the believers and the disbelievers) had been clearly separated We verilyhad punished those of them who disbelieved with painful punishment.
48/26 When those who disbelieve had set up in their hearts zealotry,the zealotry of the Age of Ignorance, then Allah sent down His peace ofreassurance upon His messenger and upon the believers and imposed on themthe word of self-restraint, for they were worthy of it and meet for it. AndAllah is Aware of all things.
48/27 Allah hath fulfilled the vision for His messenger in verytruth. Ye shall indeed enter the Inviolable Place of Worship, if Allahwill, secure, (having your hair) shaven and cut, not fearing. But Heknoweth that which ye know not, and hath given you a near victorybeforehand.
48/28 He it is Who hath sent His messenger with the guidance and thereligion of truth, that He may cause it to prevail over all religion. AndAllah sufficeth as a Witness.
48/29 Muhammad is the messenger of Allah. And those with him arehard against the disbelievers and merciful among themselves. Thou (OMuhammad) seest them bowing and falling prostrate (in worship), seekingbounty from Allah and (His) acceptance. The mark of them is on theirforeheads from the traces of prostration. Such is their likeness in theTorah and their likeness in the Gospel - like as sown corn that sendethforth its shoot and strengtheneth it and riseth firm upon its stalk,delighting the sowers - that He may enrage the disbelievers with (the sightof) them. Allah hath promised, unto such of them as believe and do goodworks, forgiveness and immense reward.
