25/1 Blessed is He Who hath revealed unto His slave the Criterion(of right and wrong), that he may be a warner to the peoples.
25/2 He unto Whom belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and theearth, He hath chosen no son nor hath He any partner in the Sovereignty. Hehath created everything and hath meted out for it a measure.
25/3 Yet they choose beside Him other gods who create naught butare themselves created, and possess not hurt nor profit for themselves, andpossess not death nor life, nor power to raise the dead.
25/4 Those who disbelieve say: This is naught but a lie that hehath invented, and other folk have helped him with it, so that they haveproduced a slander and a lie.
25/5 And they say: Fables of the men of old which he hath hadwritten down so that they are dictated to him morn and evening.
25/6 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): He who knoweth the secret of theheavens and the earth hath revealed it. Lo! He ever is Forgiving,Merciful.
25/7 And they say: What aileth this messenger (of Allah) that heeateth food and walketh in the markets? Why is not an angel sent down untohim, to be a warner with him.
25/8 Or (why is not) treasure thrown down unto him, or why hath henot a paradise from whence to eat? And the evil-doers say: Ye are butfollowing a man bewitched.
25/9 See how they coin similitudes for thee, so that they are allastray and cannot find a road!
25/10 Blessed is He Who, if He will, will assign thee better than(all) that - Gardens underneath which rivers flow  - and will assign theemansions.
25/11 Nay, but they deny (the coming of) the Hour, and for those whodeny (the coming of) the Hour We have prepared a flame.
25/12 When it seeth them from afar, they hear the crackling and theroar thereof.
25/13 And when they are flung into a narrow place thereof, chainedtogether, they pray for destruction there.
25/14 Pray not that day for one destruction, but pray for manydestructions!
25/15 Say: Is that (doom) better or the Garden of Immortality whichis promised unto those who ward off (evil)? It will be their reward andjourney's end.
25/16 Therein abiding, they have all that they desire. It is for thyLord a promise that must be fulfilled.
25/17 And on the day when He will assemble them and that which theyworship instead of Allah and will say: Was it ye who misled these my slavesor did they (themselves) wander from the way?
25/18 They will say: Be Thou Glorified! it was not for us to chooseany protecting friends beside thee; but Thou didst give them and theirfathers ease till they forgot the warning and became lost folk.
25/19 Thus they will give you the lie regarding what ye say, then yecan neither avert (the doom) nor obtain help. And whoso among you doethwrong, We shall make him taste great torment.
25/20 We never sent before thee any messengers but lo! they verilyate food and walked in the markets. And We have appointed some of you atest for others: Will ye be steadfast? And thy Lord is ever Seer.
25/21 And those who look not for a meeting with Us say: Why areangels not sent down unto us and (Why) do we not see our Lord! Assuredlythey think too highly of themselves and are scornful with great pride.
25/22 On the day when they behold the angels, on that day there willbe no good tidings for the guilty; and they will cry: A forbidding ban!
25/23 And We shall turn unto the work they did and make it scatteredmotes.
25/24 Those who have earned the Garden on that day will be better intheir home and happier in their place of noonday rest;
25/25 A day when the heaven with the clouds will be rent asunder andthe angels will be sent down, a grand descent.
25/26 The Sovereignty on that day will be the True (Sovereignty)belonging to the Beneficent One, and it will be a hard day fordisbelievers.
25/27 On the day when the wrong-doer gnaweth his hands, he will say:Ah, would that I had chosen a way together with the messenger (of Allah)!
25/28 Alas for me! Ah, would that I had never taken such an one forfriend!
25/29 He verily led me astray from the Reminder after it had reachedme. Satan was ever man's deserter in the hour of need.
25/30 And the messenger saith: O my Lord! Lo! mine own folk makethis Qur'an of no account.
25/31 Even so have We appointed unto every prophet an opponent fromamong the guilty; but Allah sufficeth for a Guide and Helper.
25/32 And those who disbelieve say: Why is the Qur'an not revealedunto him all at once? (It is revealed) thus that We may strengthen thyheart therewith; and We have arranged it in right order.
25/33 And they bring thee no similitude but We bring thee the Truth(as against it), and better (than their similitude) as argument.
25/34 Those who will be gathered on their faces unto hell: such areworse in plight and further from the right road.
25/35 We verily gave Moses the Scripture and placed with him hisbrother Aaron as henchman.
25/36 Then We said: Go together unto the folk who have denied Ourrevelations. Then We destroyed them, a complete destruction.
25/37 And Noah's folk, when they denied the messengers, We drownedthem and made of them a portent for mankind. We have prepared a painfuldoom for evil-doers.
25/38 And (the tribes of) A'ad and Thamud, and the dwellers inAr-Rass, and many generations in between.
25/39 Each (of them) We warned by examples, and each (of them) Webrought to utter ruin.
25/40 And indeed they have passed by the township whereon was rainedthe fatal rain. Can it be that they have not seen it? Nay, but they hopefor no resurrection.
25/41 And when they see thee (O Muhammad) they treat thee only as ajest (saying): Is this he whom Allah sendeth as a messenger?
25/42 He would have led us far away from our gods if we had not beenstaunch to them. They will know, when they behold the doom, who is moreastray as to the road.
25/43 Hast thou seen him who chooseth for his god his own lust?Wouldst thou then be guardian over him?
25/44 Or deemest thou that most of them hear or understand? They arebut as the cattle - nay, but they are farther astray?
25/45 Hast thou not seen how thy Lord hath spread the shade - And ifHe willed He could have made it still - then We have made the sun itspilot;
25/46 Then We withdraw it unto Us, a gradual withdrawal?
25/47 And He it is Who maketh night a covering for you, and sleeprepose, and maketh day a resurrection.
25/48 And He it is Who sendeth the winds, glad tidings heralding Hismercy, and We send down purifying water from the sky,
25/49 That We may give life thereby to a dead land, and We give manybeasts and men that We have created to drink thereof.
25/50 And verily We have repeated it among them that they mayremember, but most of mankind begrudge aught save ingratitude.
25/51 If We willed, We could raise up a warner in every village.
25/52 So obey not the disbelievers, but strive against them herewithwith a great endeavour.
25/53 And He it is Who hath given independence to the two seas(though they meet); one palatable, sweet, and the other saltish, bitter;and hath set a bar and a forbidding ban between them.
25/54 And He it is Who hath created man from water, and hathappointed for him kindred by blood and kindred by marriage; for thy Lord isever Powerful.
25/55 Yet they worship instead of Allah that which can neitherbenefit them nor hurt them. The disbeliever was ever a partisan against hisLord.
25/56 And We have sent thee (O Muhammad) only as a bearer of goodtidings and a warner.
25/57 Say: I ask of you no reward for this, save that whoso will maychoose a way unto his Lord.
25/58 And trust thou in the Living One Who dieth not, and hymn Hispraise. He sufficeth as the Knower of His bondmen's sins,
25/59 Who created the heavens and the earth and all that is betweenthem in six Days, then He mounted the Throne. The Beneficent! Ask anyoneinformed concerning Him!
25/60 And when it is said unto them: Prostrate to the Beneficent! they say:And what is the Beneficent? Are we to prostrate to whatever thou (Muhammad)biddest us? And it increaseth aversion in them.
25/61 Blessed be He Who hath placed in the heaven mansions of thestars, and hath placed therein a great lamp and a moon giving light!
25/62 And He it is Who hath appointed night and day in succession,for him who desireth to remember, or desireth thankfulness.
25/63 The (faithful) slaves of the Beneficent are they who walk uponthe earth modestly, and when the foolish ones address them answer: Peace;
25/64 And who spend the night before their Lord, prostrate andstanding,
25/65 And who say: Our Lord! Avert from us the doom of hell; lo! thedoom thereof is anguish;
25/66 Lo! it is wretched as abode and station;
25/67 And those who, when they spend, are neither prodigal norgrudging; and there is ever a firm station between the two;
25/68 And those who cry not unto any other god along with Allah, nortake the life which Allah hath forbidden save in (course of) justice, norcommit adultery - and whoso doeth this shall pay the penalty;
25/69 The doom will be doubled for him on the Day of Resurrection,and he will abide therein disdained for ever;
25/70 Save him who repenteth and believeth and doth righteous work;as for such, Allah will change their evil deeds to good deeds. Allah isever Forgiving, Merciful.
25/71 And whosoever repenteth and doeth good, he verily repentethtoward Allah with true repentance -
25/72 And those who will not witness vanity, but when they pass nearsenseless play, pass by with dignity.
25/73 And those who, when they are reminded of the revelations oftheir Lord, fall not deaf and blind thereat.
25/74 And who say: Our Lord! Vouchsafe us comfort of our wives andof our offspring, and make us patterns for (all) those who ward off(evil).
25/75 They will be awarded the high place forasmuch as they weresteadfast, and they will meet therein with welcome and the ward of peace,
25/76 Abiding there for ever. Happy is it as abode and station!
25/77 Say (O Muhammad, unto the disbelievers): My Lord would notconcern Himself with you but for your prayer. But now ye have denied (theTruth), therefor there will be judgment.
