22/1 O mankind! Fear your Lord. Lo! the earthquake of the Hour (ofDoom) is a tremendous thing.
22/2 On the day when ye behold it, every nursing mother will forgether nursling and every pregnant one will be delivered of her burden, andthou (Muhammad) wilt see mankind as drunken, yet they will not be drunken,but the Doom of Allah will be strong (upon them).
22/3 Among mankind is he who disputeth concerning Allah withoutknowledge, and followeth each froward devil;
22/4 For him it is decreed that whoso taketh him for friend, heverily will mislead him and will guide him to the punishment of the Flame.
22/5 O mankind! if ye are in doubt concerning the Resurrection,then lo! We have created you from dust, then from a drop of seed, then froma clot, then from a little lump of flesh shapely and shapeless, that We maymake (it) clear for you. And We cause what We will to remain in the wombsfor an appointed time, and afterward We bring you forth as infants, then(give you growth) that ye attain your full strength. And among you there ishe who dieth (young), and among you there is he who is brought back to themost abject time of life, so that, after knowledge, he knoweth naught. Andthou (Muhammad) seest the earth barren, but when We send down waterthereon, it doth thrill and swell and put forth every lovely kind (ofgrowth).
22/6 That is because Allah, He is the Truth and because Hequickeneth the dead, and because He is Able to do all things;
22/7 And because the Hour will come, there is no doubt thereof; andbecause Allah will raise those who are in the graves.
22/8 And among mankind is he who disputeth concerning Allah withoutknowledge or guidance or a scripture giving light,
22/9 Turning away in pride to beguile (men) from the way of Allah.For him in this world is ignominy, and on the Day of Resurrection We makehim taste the doom of burning.
22/10 (And unto him it will be said): This is for that which thy twohands have sent before, and because Allah is no oppressor of His slaves.
22/11 And among mankind is he who worshippeth Allah upon a narrowmarge so that if good befalleth him he is content therewith, but if a trialbefalleth him, he falleth away utterly. He loseth both the world and theHereafter. That is the sheer loss.
22/12 He calleth, beside Allah, unto that which hurteth him not norbenefiteth him. That is the far error.
22/13 He calleth unto him whose harm is nearer than his benefit;verily an evil patron and verily an evil friend!
22/14 Lo! Allah causeth those who believe and do good works to enterGardens underneath which rivers flow. Lo! Allah doth what He intendeth.
22/15 Whoso is wont to think (through envy) that Allah will not givehim (Muhammad) victory in the world and the Hereafter (and is enraged atthe thought of his victory), let him stretch a rope up to the roof (of hisdwelling), and let him hang himself. Then let him see whether his strategydispelleth that whereat he rageth!.
22/16 Thus We reveal it as plain revelations, and verily Allahguideth whom He will.
22/17 Lo! those who believe (this revelation), and those who areJews, and the Sabaeans and the Christians and the Magians and the idolaters- Lo! Allah will decide between them on the Day of Resurrection. Lo! Allahis Witness over all things.
22/18 Hast thou not seen that unto Allah payeth adoration whosoeveris in the heavens and whosoever is in the earth, and the sun, and the moon,and the stars, and the hills, and the trees, and the beasts, and many ofmankind, while there are many unto whom the doom is justly due. He whomAllah scorneth, there is none to give him honour. Lo! Allah doeth what Hewill.
22/19 These twain (the believers and the disbelievers) are twoopponents who contend concerning their Lord. But as for those whodisbelieve, garments of fire will be cut out for them; boiling fluid willbe poured down on their heads,
22/20 Whereby that which is in their bellies, and their skins too,will be melted;
22/21 And for them are hooked rods of iron.
22/22 Whenever, in their anguish, they would go forth from thencethey are driven back therein and (it is said unto them): Taste the doom ofburning.
22/23 Lo! Allah will cause those who believe and do good works toenter Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will be allowedarmlets of gold, and pearls, and their raiment therein will be silk.
22/24 They are guided unto gentle speech; they are guided unto thepath of the Glorious One.
22/25 Lo! those who disbelieve and bar (men) from the way of Allahand from the Inviolable Place of Worship, which We have appointed formankind together, the dweller therein and the nomad: whosoever seekethwrongful partiality therein, him We shall cause to taste a painful doom.
22/26 And (remember) when We prepared for Abraham the place of the(holy) House, saying: Ascribe thou no thing as partner unto Me, and purifyMy House for those who make the round (thereof) and those who stand andthose who bow and make prostration.
22/27 And proclaim unto mankind the pilgrimage. They will come untothee on foot and on every lean camel; they will come from every deepravine,
22/28 That they may witness things that are of benefit to them, andmention the name of Allah on appointed days over the beast of cattle thatHe hath bestowed upon them. Then eat thereof and feed therewith the poorunfortunate.
22/29 Then let them make an end of their unkemptness and pay theirvows and go around the ancient House.
22/30 That (is the command). And whoso magnifieth the sacred thingsof Allah, it will be well for him in the sight of his Lord. The cattle arelawful unto you save that which hath been told you. So shun the filth ofidols, and shun lying speech,
22/31 Turning unto Allah (only), not ascribing partners unto Him;for whoso ascribeth partners unto Allah, it is as if he had fallen from thesky and the birds had snatched him or the wind had blown him to a far-offplace.
22/32 That (is the command). And whoso magnifieth the offeringsconsecrated to Allah, it surely is from devotion of the hearts,
22/33 Therein are benefits for you for an appointed term; andafterward they are brought for sacrifice unto the ancient House.
22/34 And for every nation have We appointed a ritual, that they maymention the name of Allah over the beast of cattle that He hath given themfor food; and your god is One God, therefor surrender unto Him. And givegood tidings (O Muhammad) to the humble,
22/35 Whose hearts fear when Allah is mentioned, and the patient ofwhatever may befall them, and those who establish worship and who spend ofthat We have bestowed on them.
22/36 And the camels! We have appointed them among the ceremonies ofAllah. Therein ye have much good. So mention the name of Allah over themwhen they are drawn up in lines. Then when their flanks fall (dead), eatthereof and feed the beggar and the suppliant. Thus have We made themsubject unto you, that haply ye may give thanks.
22/37 Their flesh and their food reach not Allah, but the devotionfrom you reacheth Him. Thus have We made them subject unto you that ye maymagnify Allah that He hath guided you. And give good tidings (O Muhammad)to the good.
22/38 Lo! Allah defendeth those who are true. Lo! Allah loveth noteach treacherous ingrate.
22/39 Sanction is given unto those who fight because they have beenwronged; and Allah is indeed Able to give them victory;
22/40 Those who have been driven from their homes unjustly onlybecause they said: Our Lord is Allah - For had it not been for Allah'srepelling some men by means of others, cloisters and churches and oratoriesand mosques, wherein the name of Allah is oft mentioned, would assuredlyhave been pulled down. Verily Allah helpeth one who helpeth Him. Lo! Allahis Strong, Almighty -
22/41 Those who, if We give them power in the land, establishworship and pay the poor-due and enjoin kindness and forbid iniquity. AndAllah's is the sequel of events.
22/42 If they deny thee (Muhammad), even so the folk of Noah, and(the tribes of) A'ad and Thamud, before thee, denied (Our messengers);
22/43 And the folk of Abraham and the folk of Lot;
22/44 (And) the dwellers in Midian. And Moses was denied; but Iindulged the disbelievers a long while, then I seized them, and how(terrible) was My abhorrence!
22/45 How many a township have We destroyed while it was sinful, sothat it lieth (to this day) in ruins, and (how many) a deserted well andlofty tower!
22/46 Have they not travelled in the land, and have they heartswherewith to feel and ears wherewith to hear? For indeed it is not the eyesthat grow blind, but it is the hearts, which are within the bosoms, thatgrow blind.
22/47 And they will bid thee hasten on the Doom, and Allah failethnot His promise, but lo! a Day with Allah is as a thousand years of what yereckon.
22/48 And how many a township did I suffer long though it wassinful! Then I grasped it. Unto Me is the return.
22/49 Say: O mankind! I am only a plain warner unto you.
22/50 Those who believe and do good works, for them is pardon and arich provision;
22/51 While those who strive to thwart Our revelations, such arerightful owners of the Fire.
22/52 Never sent We a messenger or a prophet before thee but when Herecited (the message) Satan proposed (opposition) in respect of that whichhe recited thereof. But Allah abolisheth that which Satan proposeth. ThenAllah establisheth His revelations. Allah is Knower, Wise;
22/53 That He may make that which the devil proposeth a temptationfor those in whose hearts is a disease, and those whose hearts are hardened- Lo! the evil-doers are in open schism -
22/54 And that those who have been given knowledge may know that itis the truth from thy Lord, so that they may believe therein and theirhearts may submit humbly unto Him. Lo! Allah verily is guiding those whobelieve unto a right path.
22/55 And those who disbelieve will not cease to be in doubt thereofuntil the Hour come upon them unawares, or there come unto them the doom ofa disastrous day.
22/56 The Sovereignty on that day will be Allah's, He will judgebetween them. Then those who believed and did good works will be in Gardensof Delight,
22/57 While those who disbelieved and denied Our revelations, forthem will be a shameful doom.
22/58 Those who fled their homes for the cause of Allah and thenwere slain or died, Allah verily will provide for them a good provision.Lo! Allah, He verily is Best of all who make provision.
22/59 Assuredly He will cause them to enter by an entry that theywill love. Lo! Allah verily is Knower, Indulgent.
22/60 That (is so). And whoso hath retaliated with the like of thatwhich he was made to suffer and then hath (again) been wronged, Allah willsuccour him. Lo! Allah verily is Mild, Forgiving.
22/61 That is because Allah maketh the night to pass into the dayand maketh the day to pass into the night, and because Allah is Hearer,Seer.
22/62 That is because Allah, He is the True, and that whereon theycall instead of Him, it is the false, and because Allah, He is the High,the Great.
22/63 Seest thou not how Allah sendeth down water from the sky andthen the earth becometh green upon the morrow? Lo! Allah is Subtile,Aware.
22/64 Unto Him belongeth all that is in the heavens and all that isin the earth. Lo! Allah, He verily is the Absolute, the Owner of Praise.
22/65 Hast thou not seen how Allah hath made all that is in theearth subservient unto you? And the ship runneth upon the sea by Hiscommand, and He holdeth back the heaven from falling on the earth unless byHis leave. Lo! Allah is, for mankind, Full of Pity, Merciful.
22/66 And He it is Who gave you life, then He will cause you to die,and then will give you life (again). Lo! man is verily an ingrate.
22/67 Unto each nation have We given sacred rites which they are toperform; so let them not dispute with thee of the matter, but summon thouunto thy Lord. Lo! thou indeed followest right guidance.
22/68 And if they wrangle with thee, say: Allah is Best Aware ofwhat ye do.
22/69 Allah will judge between you on the Day of Resurrectionconcerning that wherein ye used to differ.
22/70 Hast thou not known that Allah knoweth all that is in theheaven and the earth? Lo! it is in a record. Lo! that is easy for Allah.
22/71 And they worship instead of Allah that for which He hath sentdown no warrant, and that whereof they have no knowledge. For evil-doersthere is no helper.
22/72 And when Our revelations are recited unto them, thou knowestthe denial in the faces of those who disbelieve; they all but attack thosewho recite Our revelations unto them. Say: Shall I proclaim unto you worsethan that? The Fire! Allah hath promised it for those who disbelieve. Ahapless journey's end!
22/73 O mankind! A similitude is coined, so pay ye heed to it: Lo!those on whom ye call beside Allah will never create a fly though theycombine together for the purpose. And if the fly took something from them,they could not rescue it from it. So weak are (both) the seeker and thesought!
22/74 They measure not Allah His rightful measure. Lo! Allah isStrong, Almighty.
22/75 Allah chooseth from the angels messengers, and (also) frommankind. Lo! Allah is Hearer, Seer.
22/76 He knoweth all that is before them and all that is behindthem, and unto Allah all things are returned.$$A
22/77 O ye who believe! Bow down and prostrate yourselves, andworship your Lord, and do good, that haply ye may prosper.
22/78 And strive for Allah with the endeavour which is His right. Hehath chosen you and hath not laid upon you in religion any hardship; thefaith of your father Abraham (is yours). He hath named you Muslims of oldtime and in this (Scripture), that the messenger may be a witness againstyou, and that ye may be witnesses against mankind. So establish worship,pay the poor-due, and hold fast to Allah. He is your Protecting friend. Ablessed Patron and a blessed Helper!
