49/1 O ye who believe! Be not forward in the presence of Allah andHis messenger, and keep your duty to Allah. Lo! Allah is Hearer, Knower.
49/2 O ye who believe! Lift not up your voices above the voice ofthe Prophet, nor shout when speaking to him as ye shout one to another,lest your works be rendered vain while ye perceive not.
49/3 Lo! they who subdue their voices in the presence of themessenger of Allah, those are they whose hearts Allah hath proven untorighteousness. Theirs will be forgiveness and immense reward.
49/4 Lo! those who call thee from behind the private apartments,most of them have no sense.
49/5 And if they had had patience till thou camest forth unto them,it had been better for them. And Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
49/6 O ye who believe! If an evil-liver bring you tidings, verifyit, lest ye smite some folk in ignorance and afterward repent of what yedid.
49/7 And know that the messenger of Allah is among you. If he wereto obey you in much of the government, ye would surely be in trouble; butAllah hath endeared the faith to you and hath beautified it in your hearts,and hath made disbelief and lewdness and rebellion hateful unto you. Suchare they who are the rightly guided.
49/8 (It is) a bounty and a grace from Allah; and Allah is Knower,Wise.
49/9 And if two parties of believers fall to fighting, then makepeace between them. And if one party of them doeth wrong to the other,fight ye that which doeth wrong till it return unto the ordinance of Allah;then, if it return, make peace between them justly, and act equitably. Lo!Allah loveth the equitable.
49/10 The believers are naught else than brothers. Therefore makepeace between your brethren and observe your duty to Allah that haply yemay obtain mercy.
49/11 O ye who believe! Let not a folk deride a folk who may bebetter than they (are), not let women (deride) women who may be better thanthey are; neither defame one another, nor insult one another by nicknames.Bad is the name of lewdness after faith. And whoso turneth not inrepentance, such are evil-doers.
49/12 O ye who believe! Shun much suspicion; for lo! some suspicionis a crime. And spy not, neither backbite one another. Would one of youlove to eat the flesh of his dead brother? Ye abhor that (so abhor theother)! And keep your duty (to Allah). Lo! Allah is Relenting, Merciful.
49/13 O mankind! Lo! We have created you male and female, and havemade you nations and tribes that ye may know one another. Lo! the noblestof you, in the sight of Allah, is the best in conduct. Lo! Allah is Knower,Aware.
49/14 The wandering Arabs say: We believe. Say (unto them, OMuhammad): Ye believe not, but rather say "We submit," for the faith hathnot yet entered into your hearts. Yet, if ye obey Allah and His messenger,He will not withhold from you aught of (the reward of) your deeds. Lo!Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
49/15 The (true) believers are those only who believe in Allah andHis messenger and afterward doubt not, but strive with their wealth andtheir lives for the cause of Allah. Such are the sincere.
49/16 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Would ye teach Allah yourreligion, when Allah knoweth all that is in the heavens and all that is inthe earth, and Allah is Aware of all things?
49/17 They make it a favour unto thee (Muhammad) that they havesurrendered (unto Him). Say: Deem not your Surrender a favour unto me; butAllah doth confer a favour on you, inasmuch as He hath led you to theFaith, if ye are earnest.
49/18 Lo! Allah knoweth the Unseen of the heavens and the earth. AndAllah is Seer of what ye do.
