17/1 Glorified be He Who carried His servant by night from theInviolable Place of Worship to the Far distant place of worship theneighbourhood whereof We have blessed, that We might show him of Ourtokens! Lo! He, only He, is the Hearer, the Seer.
17/2 We gave unto Moses the Scripture, and We appointed it aguidance for the children of Israel, saying: Choose no guardian beside Me.
17/3 (They were) the seed of those whom We carried (in the ship)along with Noah. Lo! he was a grateful slave.
17/4 And We decreed for the Children of Israel in the Scripture: Yeverily will work corruption in the earth twice, and ye will become greattyrants.
17/5 So when the time for the first of the two came, We rousedagainst you slaves of Ours of great might who ravaged (your) country, andit was a threat performed.
17/6 Then we gave you once again your turn against them, and Weaided you with wealth and children and made you more in soldiery.
17/7 (Saying): If ye do good, ye do good for your own souls, and ifye do evil, it is for them (in like manner). So, when the time for thesecond (of the judgments) came (We roused against you others of Our slaves)to ravage you, and to enter the Temple even as they entered it the firsttime, and to lay waste all that they conquered with an utter wasting.
17/8 It may be that your Lord will have mercy on you, but if yerepeat (the crime) We shall repeat (the punishment), and We have appointedhell a dungeon for the disbelievers.
17/9 Lo! this Qur'an guideth unto that which is straightest, andgiveth tidings unto the believers who do good works that theirs will be agreat reward.
17/10 And that those who believe not in the Hereafter, for them Wehave prepared a painful doom.
17/11 Man prayeth for evil as he prayeth for good; for man was everhasty.
17/12 And We appoint the night and the day two portents. Then Wemake dark the portent of the night, and We make the portent of the daysight-giving, that ye may seek bounty from your Lord, and that ye may knowthe computation of the years, and the reckoning; and everything have Weexpounded with a clear expounding.
17/13 And every man's augury have We fastened to his own neck, andWe shall bring forth for him on the Day of Resurrection a book which hewill find wide open.
17/14 (And it will be said unto him): Read thy Book. Thy soulsufficeth as reckoner against thee this day.
17/15 Whosoever goeth right, it is only for (the good of) his ownsoul that he goeth right, and whosoever erreth, erreth only to its hurt. Noladen soul can bear another's load, We never punish until we have sent amessenger.
17/16 And when We would destroy a township We send commandment toits folk who live at ease, and afterward they commit abomination therein,and so the Word (of doom) hath effect for it, and we annihilate it withcomplete annihilation.
17/17 How many generations have We destroyed since Noah! And Allahsufficeth as Knower and Beholder of the sins of His slaves.
17/18 Whoso desireth that (life) which hasteneth away, We hasten forhim therein what We will for whom We please. And afterward We haveappointed for him hell; he will endure the heat thereof, condemned,rejected.
17/19 And whoso desireth the Hereafter and striveth for it with theeffort necessary, being a believer; for such, their effort findeth favour(with their Lord).
17/20 Each do We supply, both these and those, from the bounty ofthy Lord. And the bounty of thy Lord can never be walled up.
17/21 See how We prefer one of them above another, and verily theHereafter will be greater in degrees and greater in preferment.
17/22 Set not up with Allah any other god (O man) lest thou sit downreproved, forsaken.
17/23 Thy Lord hath decreed, that ye worship none save Him, and(that ye show) kindness to parents. If one of them or both of them attainold age with thee, say not "Fie" unto them nor repulse them, but speak untothem a gracious word.
17/24 And lower unto them the wing of submission through mercy, andsay: My Lord! Have mercy on them both as they did care for me when I waslittle.
17/25 Your Lord is Best Aware of what is in your minds. If ye arerighteous, then lo! He was ever Forgiving unto those who turn (unto Him).
17/26 Give the kinsman his due, and the needy, and the wayfarer, andsquander not (thy wealth) in wantonness.
17/27 Lo! the squanderers were ever brothers of the devils, and thedevil was ever an ingrate to his Lord.
17/28 But if thou turn away from them, seeking mercy from thy Lord,for which thou hopest, then speak unto them a reasonable word.
17/29 And let not thy hand be chained to thy neck nor open it with acomplete opening, lest thou sit down rebuked, denuded.
17/30 Lo! thy Lord enlargeth the provision for whom He will, andstraiteneth (it for whom He will). Lo, He was ever Knower, Seer of Hisslaves.
17/31 Slay not your children, fearing a fall to poverty, We shallprovide for them and for you. Lo! the slaying of them is great sin.
17/32 And come not near unto adultery. Lo! it is an abomination andan evil way.
17/33 And slay not the life which Allah hath forbidden save withright. Whoso is slain wrongfully, We have given power unto his heir, butlet him not commit excess in slaying. Lo! he will be helped.
17/34 Come not near the wealth of the orphan save with that which isbetter till he come to strength; and keep the covenant. Lo! of the covenantit will be asked.
17/35 Fill the measure when ye measure, and weigh with a rightbalance; that is meet, and better in the end.
17/36 (O man), follow not that whereof thou hast no knowledge. Lo!the hearing and the sight and the heart - of each of these it will beasked.
17/37 And walk not in the earth exultant. Lo! thou canst not rendthe earth, nor canst thou stretch to the height of the hills.
17/38 The evil of all that is hateful in the sight of thy Lord.
17/39 This is (part) of that wisdom wherewith thy Lord hath inspiredthee (O Muhammad). And set not up with Allah any other god, lest thou becast into hell, reproved, abandoned.
17/40 Hath your Lord then distinguished you (O men of Makka) bygiving you sons, and hath chosen for Himself females from among the angels?Lo! verily ye speak an awful word!
17/41 We verily have displayed (Our warnings) in this Qur'an thatthey may take heed, but it increaseth them in naught save aversion.
17/42 Say (O Muhammad, to the disbelievers): If there were othergods along with Him, as they say, then had they sought a way against theLord of the Throne.
17/43 Glorified is He, and High Exalted above what they say!
17/44 The seven heavens and the earth and all that is therein praiseHim, and there is not a thing but hymneth His praise; but ye understand nottheir praise. Lo! He is ever Clement, Forgiving.
17/45 And when thou recitest the Qur'an we place between thee andthose who believe not in the Hereafter a hidden barrier;
17/46 And We place upon their hearts veils lest they shouldunderstand it, and in their ears a deafness; and when thou makest mentionof thy Lord alone in the Qur'an, they turn their backs in aversion.
17/47 We are Best Aware of what they wish to hear when they give earto thee and when they take secret counsel, when the evil-doers say: Yefollow but a man bewitched.
17/48 See what similitudes they coin for thee, and thus are allastray, and cannot find a road!
17/49 And they say: When we are bones and fragments, shall weforsooth, be raised up as a new creation?
17/50 Say: Be ye stones or iron
17/51 Or some created thing that is yet greater in your thoughts!Then they will say: Who shall bring us back (to life). Say: He Who createdyou at the first. Then will they shake their heads at thee, and say: Whenwill it be? Say: It will perhaps be soon;
17/52 A day when He will call you and ye will answer with Hispraise, and ye will think that ye have tarried but a little while.
17/53 Tell My bondmen to speak that which is kindlier. Lo! the devilsoweth discord among them. Lo! the devil is for man an open foe.
17/54 Your Lord is Best Aware of you. If He will, He will have mercyon you, or if He will, He will punish you. We have not sent thee (OMuhammad) as a warden over them.
17/55 And thy Lord is Best Aware of all who are in the heavens andthe earth. And we preferred some of the prophets above others, and untoDavid We gave the Psalms.
17/56 Say: Cry unto those (saints and angels) whom ye assume (to begods) beside Him, yet they have no power to rid you of misfortune nor tochange.
17/57 Those unto whom they cry seek the way of approach to theirLord, which of them shall be the nearest; they hope for His mercy and theyfear His doom. Lo! the doom of thy Lord is to be shunned.
17/58 There is not a township but We shall destroy it ere the Day ofResurrection, or punish it with dire punishment. That is set forth in theBook (of Our decrees).
17/59 Naught hindereth Us from sending portents save that the folkof old denied them. And We gave Thamud the she-camel - a clear portent saveto warn.
17/60 And (it was a warning) when we told thee: Lo! thy Lordencompasseth mankind, and We appointed the sight which We showed thee as anordeal for mankind, and (likewise) the Accursed Tree in the Qur'an. We warnthem, but it increaseth them in naught save gross impiety.
17/61 And when We said unto the angels: Fall down prostrate beforeAdam and they fell prostrate all save Iblis, he said: Shall I fallprostrate before that which Thou hast created of clay?
17/62 He said: Seest Thou this (creature) whom Thou hast honouredabove me, if Thou give me grace until the Day of Resurrection I verily willseize his seed, save but a few.
17/63 He said: Go, and whosoever of them followeth thee - lo! hellwill be your payment, ample payment.
17/64 And excite any of them whom thou canst with thy voice, andurge thy horse and foot against them, and be a partner in their wealth andchildren, and promise them. Satan promiseth them only to deceive.
17/65 Lo! My (faithful) bondmen - over them thou hast no power, andthy Lord sufficeth as (their) guardian.
17/66 (O mankind), your Lord is He Who driveth for you the ship uponthe sea that ye may seek of His bounty. Lo! He was ever Merciful towardyou.
17/67 And when harm toucheth you upon the sea, all unto whom ye cry(for succour) fail save Him (alone), but when He bringeth you safe to land,ye turn away, for man was ever thankless.
17/68 Feel ye then secure that He will not cause a slope of the landto engulf you, or send a sand-storm upon you, and then ye will find that yehave no protector?
17/69 Or feel ye secure that He will not return you to that (plight)a second time, and send against you a hurricane of wind and drown you foryour thanklessness, and then ye will not find therein that ye have anyavenger against Us?
17/70 Verily we have honoured the Children of Adam. We carry them onthe land and the sea, and have made provision of good things for them, andhave preferred them above many of those whom We created with a markedpreferment.
17/71 On the day when We shall summon all men with their record,whoso is given his book in his right hand - such will read their book andthey will not be wronged a shred.
17/72 Whoso is blind here will be blind in the Hereafter, and yetfurther from the road.
17/73 And they indeed strove hard to beguile thee (Muhammad) awayfrom that wherewith We have inspired thee, that thou shouldst invent otherthan it against Us; and then would they have accepted thee as a friend.
17/74 And if We had not made thee wholly firm thou mightest almosthave inclined unto them a little.
17/75 Then had we made thee taste a double (punishment) of livingand a double (punishment) of dying, then hadst thou found no helper againstUs.
17/76 And they indeed wished to scare thee from the land that theymight drive thee forth from thence, and then they would have stayed (there)but a little after thee.
17/77 (Such was Our) method in the case of those whom We sent beforethee (to mankind), and thou wilt not find for Our method aught of power tochange.
17/78 Establish worship at the going down of the sun until the darkof night, and (the recital of) the Qur'an at dawn. Lo! (the recital of) theQur'an at dawn is ever witnessed.
17/79 And some part of the night awake for it, a largess for thee.It may be that thy Lord will raise thee to a praised estate.
17/80 And say: My Lord! Cause me to come in with a firm incoming andto go out with a firm outgoing. And give me from Thy presence a sustainingPower.
17/81 And say: Truth hath come and falsehood hath vanished away. Lo!falsehood is ever bound to vanish.
17/82 And We reveal of the Qur'an that which is a healing and amercy for believers though it increase the evil-doers in naught save ruin.
17/83 And when We make life pleasant unto man, he turneth away andis averse; and when ill toucheth him he is in despair.
17/84 Say: Each one doth according to his rule of conduct, and thyLord is Best Aware of him whose way is right.
17/85 They are asking thee concerning the Spirit. Say: The Spirit isby command of my Lord, and of knowledge ye have been vouchsafed butlittle.
17/86 And if We willed We could withdraw that which We have revealedunto thee, then wouldst thou find no guardian for thee against Us inrespect thereof.
17/87 (It is naught) save mercy from thy Lord. Lo! His kindness untothee was ever great.
17/88 Say: Verily, though mankind and the jinn should assemble toproduce the like of this Qur'an, they could not produce the like thereofthough they were helpers one of another.
17/89 And verily We have displayed for mankind in this Qur'an allkind of similitudes, but most of mankind refuse aught save disbelief.
17/90 And they say: We will not put faith in thee till thou cause aspring to gush forth from the earth for us;
17/91 Or thou have a garden of date-palms and grapes, and causerivers to gush forth therein abundantly;
17/92 Or thou cause the heaven to fall upon us piecemeal, as thouhast pretended, or bring Allah and the angels as a warrant;
17/93 Or thou have a house of gold; or thou ascend up into heaven,and even then we will put no faith in thine ascension till thou bring downfor us a book that we can read. Say (O Muhammad): My Lord be Glorified! AmI aught save a mortal messenger?
17/94 And naught prevented mankind from believing when the guidancecame unto them save that they said: Hath Allah sent a mortal as (His)messenger?
17/95 Say: If there were in the earth angels walking secure, We hadsent down for them from heaven an angel as messenger.
17/96 Say: Allah sufficeth for a witness between me and you. Lo! Heis Knower, Seer of His slaves.
17/97 And he whom Allah guideth, he is led aright; while, as for himwhom He sendeth astray, for them thou wilt find no protecting friendsbeside Him, and We shall assemble them on the Day of Resurrection on theirfaces, blind, dumb and deaf; their habitation will be hell; whenever itabateth, We increase the flame for them.
17/98 That is their reward because they disbelieved Our revelationsand said: When we are bones and fragments shall we, forsooth, be raised upas a new creation?
17/99 Have they not seen that Allah Who created the heavens and theearth is Able to create the like of them, and hath appointed for them anend whereof there is no doubt? But the wrong-doers refuse aught savedisbelief.
17/100 Say (unto them): If ye possessed the treasures of the mercy ofmy Lord, ye would surely hold them back for fear of spending, for man wasever grudging.
17/101 And verily We gave unto Moses nine tokens, clear proofs (ofAllah's Sovereignty). Do but ask the Children of Israel how he came untothem, then Pharaoh said unto him: Lo! I deem thee one bewitched, O Moses.
17/102 He said: In truth thou knowest that none sent down these(portents) save the Lord of the heavens and the earth as proofs, and lo!(for my part) I deem thee lost, O Pharaoh.
17/103 And he wished to scare them from the land, but We drowned himand those with him, all together.
17/104 And We said unto the Children of Israel after him: Dwell inthe land; but when the promise of the Hereafter cometh to pass We shallbring you as a crowd gathered out of various nations.
17/105 With truth have We sent it down, and with truth hath itdescended. And We have sent thee as naught else save a bearer of goodtidings and a warner.
17/106 And (it is) a Qur'an that We have divided, that thou maystrecite it unto mankind at intervals, and We have revealed it by(successive) revelation.
17/107 Say: Believe therein or believe not, lo! those who were givenknowledge before it, when it is read unto them, fall down prostrate ontheir faces, adoring,
17/108 Saying: Glory to our Lord! Verily the promise of our Lord mustbe fulfilled.
17/109 They fall down on their faces, weeping, and it increasethhumility in them.
17/110 Say (unto mankind): Cry unto Allah, or cry unto theBeneficent, unto whichsoever ye cry (it is the same). His are the mostbeautiful names. And thou (Muhammad), be not loud-voiced in thy worship noryet silent therein, but follow a way between.
17/111 And say: Praise be to Allah, Who hath not taken unto Himself ason, and Who hath no partner in the Sovereignty, nor hath He any protectingfriend through dependence. And magnify Him with all magnificence.
