58/1 Allah hath heard the saying of her that disputeth with thee(Muhammad) concerning her husband, and complaineth unto Allah. And Allahheareth your colloquy. Lo! Allah is Hearer, Knower.
58/2 Such of you as put away your wives (by saying they are astheir mothers) - They are not their mothers; none are their mothers exceptthose who gave them birth - they indeed utter an ill word and a lie. Andlo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
58/3 Those who put away their wives (by saying they are as theirmothers) and afterward would go back on that which they have said, (thepenalty) in that case (is) the freeing of a slave before they touch oneanother. Unto this ye are exhorted; and Allah is Informed of what ye do.
58/4 And he who findeth not (the wherewithal), let him fast for twosuccessive months before they touch one another; and for him who is unableto do so (the penance is) the feeding of sixty needy ones. This, that yemay put trust in Allah and His messenger. Such are the limits (imposed byAllah); and for disbelievers is a painful doom.
58/5 Lo! those who oppose Allah and His messenger will be abasedeven as those before them were abased; and We have sent down clear tokens,and for disbelievers is a shameful doom
58/6 On the day when Allah will raise them all together and informthem of what they did. Allah hath kept account of it while they forgot it.And Allah is Witness over all things.
58/7 Hast thou not seen that Allah knoweth all that is in theheavens and all that is in the earth? There is no secret conference ofthree but He is their fourth, nor of five but He is their sixth, nor ofless than that or more but He is with them wheresoever they may be; andafterward, on the Day of Resurrection, He will inform them of what theydid. Lo! Allah is Knower of all things.
58/8 Hast thou not observed those who were forbidden conspiracy andafterward returned to that which they had been forbidden, and (now)conspire together for crime and wrongdoing and disobedience toward themessenger? And when they come unto thee they greet thee with a greetingwherewith Allah greeteth thee not, and say within themselves: Why shouldAllah punish us for what we say? Hell will suffice them; they will feel theheat thereof - a hapless journey's end!
58/9 O ye who believe! When ye conspire together, conspire nottogether for crime and wrongdoing and disobedience toward the messenger,but conspire together for righteousness and piety, and keep your dutytoward Allah, unto whom ye will be gathered.
58/10 Lo! Conspiracy is only of the devil, that he may vex those whobelieve; but he can harm them not at all unless by Allah's leave. In Allahlet believers put their trust.
58/11 O ye who believe! when it is said unto you, Make room! inassemblies, then make room; Allah will make way for you (hereafter). Andwhen it is said, Come up higher! go up higher; Allah will exalt those whobelieve among you, and those who have knowledge, to high ranks. Allah isInformed of what ye do.
58/12 O ye who believe! When ye hold conference with the messenger,offer an alms before your conference. That is better and purer for you. Butif ye cannot find (the wherewithal) then lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
58/13 Fear ye to offer alms before your conference? Then, when ye doit not and Allah hath forgiven you, establish worship and pay the poor-dueand obey Allah and His messenger. And Allah is Aware of what ye do.
58/14 Hast thou not seen those who take for friends a folk with whomAllah is wroth? They are neither of you nor of them, and they swear a falseoath knowingly.
58/15 Allah hath prepared for them a dreadful doom. Evil indeed isthat which they are wont to do.
58/16 They make a shelter of their oaths and turn (men) from the wayof Allah; so theirs will be a shameful doom.
58/17 Their wealth and their children will avail them naught againstAllah. Such are rightful owners of the Fire; they will abide therein.
58/18 On the day when Allah will raise them all together, then willthey swear unto Him as they (now) swear unto you, and they will fancy thatthey have some standing. Lo! is it not they who are the liars?
58/19 The devil hath engrossed them and so hath caused them toforget remembrance of Allah. They are the devil's party. Lo! is it not thedevil's party who will be the losers?
58/20 Lo! those who oppose Allah and His messenger, they will beamong the lowest.
58/21 Allah hath decreed: Lo! I verily shall conquer, I and Mymessengers. Lo! Allah is Strong, Almighty.
58/22 Thou wilt not find folk who believe in Allah and the Last Dayloving those who oppose Allah and His messenger, even though they be theirfathers or their sons or their brethren or their clan. As for such, He hathwritten faith upon their hearts and hath strengthened them with a Spiritfrom Him, and He will bring them into Gardens underneath which rivers flow,wherein they will abide. Allah is well pleased with them, and they are wellpleased with Him. They are Allah's party. Lo! is it not Allah's party whoare the successful?
