47/1 Those who disbelieve and turn (men) from the way of Allah, Herendereth their actions vain.
47/2 And those who believe and do good works and believe in thatwhich is revealed unto Muhammad - and it is the truth from their Lord - Heriddeth them of their ill-deeds and improveth their state.
47/3 That is because those who disbelieve follow falsehood andbecause those who believe follow the truth from their Lord. Thus Allahcoineth their similitudes for mankind.
47/4 Now when ye meet in battle those who disbelieve, then it issmiting of the necks until, when ye have routed them, then making fast ofbonds; and afterward either grace or ransom till the war lay down itsburdens. That (is the ordinance). And if Allah willed He could havepunished them (without you) but (thus it is ordained) that He may try someof you by means of others. And those who are slain in the way of Allah, Herendereth not their actions vain.
47/5 He will guide them and improve their state,
47/6 And bring them in unto the Garden which He hath made known tothem.
47/7 O ye who believe! If ye help Allah, He will help you and willmake your foothold firm.
47/8 And those who disbelieve, perdition is for them, and He willmake their actions vain.
47/9 That is because they are averse to that which Allah hathrevealed, therefor maketh He their actions fruitless.
47/10 Have they not travelled in the land to see the nature of theconsequence for those who were before them? Allah wiped them out. And forthe disbelievers there will be the like thereof.
47/11 That is because Allah is patron of those who believe, andbecause the disbelievers have no patron.
47/12 Lo! Allah will cause those who believe and do good works toenter Gardens underneath which rivers flow; while those who disbelieve taketheir comfort in this life and eat even as the cattle eat, and the Fire istheir habitation.
47/13 And how many a township stronger than thy township (OMuhammad) which hath cast thee out, have We destroyed, and they had nohelper!
47/14 Is he who relieth on a clear proof from his Lord like thosefor whom the evil that they do is beautified while they follow their ownlusts?
47/15 A similitude of the Garden which those who keep their duty (toAllah) are promised: Therein are rivers of water unpolluted, and rivers ofmilk whereof the flavour changeth not, and rivers of wine delicious to thedrinkers, and rivers of clear-run honey; therein for them is every kind offruit, with pardon from their Lord. (Are those who enjoy all this) likethose who are immortal in the Fire and are given boiling water to drink sothat it teareth their bowels?
47/16 Among them are some who give ear unto thee (Muhammad) till,when they go forth from thy presence they say unto those who have beengiven knowledge: What was that he said just now? Those are they whosehearts Allah hath sealed, and they follow their own lusts.
47/17 While as for those who walk aright, He addeth to theirguidance, and giveth them their protection (against evil).
47/18 Await they aught save the Hour, that it should come upon themunawares? And the beginnings thereof have already come. But how, when ithath come upon them, can they take their warning?
47/19 So know (O Muhammad) that there is no Allah save Allah, and askforgiveness for thy sin and for believing men and believing women. Allahknoweth (both) your place of turmoil and your place of rest.
47/20 And those who believe say: If only a surah were revealed! Butwhen a decisive surah is revealed and war is mentioned therein, thou seestthose in whose hearts is a disease looking at thee with the look of menfainting unto death. Therefor woe unto them!
47/21 Obedience and a civil word. Then, when the matter isdetermined, if they are loyal to Allah it will be well for them.
47/22 Would ye then, if ye were given the command, work corruptionin the land and sever your ties of kinship?
47/23 Such are they whom Allah curseth so that He deafeneth them andmaketh blind their eyes.
47/24 Will they then not meditate on the Qur'an, or are there lockson the hearts?
47/25 Lo! those who turn back after the guidance hath beenmanifested unto them, Satan hath seduced them, and He giveth them therein.
47/26 That is because they say unto those who hate what Allah hathrevealed: We will obey you in some matters; and Allah knoweth their secrettalk.
47/27 Then how (will it be with them) when the angels gather them,smiting their faces and their backs!
47/28 That will be because they followed that which angereth Allah,and hated that which pleaseth Him. Therefor He hath made their actionsvain.
47/29 Or do those in whose hearts is a disease deem that Allah willnot bring to light their (secret) hates?
47/30 And if We would, We could show them unto thee (Muhammad) sothat thou shouldst know them surely by their marks. And thou shalt knowthem by the burden of their talk. And Allah knoweth your deeds.
47/31 And verily We shall try you till We know those of you whostrive hard (for the cause of Allah) and the steadfast, and till We testyour record.
47/32 Lo! those who disbelieve and turn from the way of Allah andoppose the messenger after the guidance hath been manifested unto them,they hurt Allah not a jot, and He will make their actions fruitless.
47/33 O ye who believe! Obey Allah and obey the messenger, andrender not your actions vain.
47/34 Lo! those who disbelieve and turn from the way of Allah andthen die disbelievers, Allah surely will not pardon them.
47/35 So do not falter and cry out for peace when ye (will be) theuppermost, and Allah is with you, and He will not grudge (the reward of)your actions.
47/36 The life of the world is but a sport and a pastime. And if yebelieve and ward off (evil). He will give you your wages, and will not askof you your wordly wealth.
47/37 If He should ask it of you and importune you, ye would hoardit, and He would bring to light your (secret) hates.
47/38 Lo! ye are those who are called to spend in the way of Allah,yet among you there are some who hoard. And as for him who hoardeth, hehoardeth only from his soul. And Allah is the Rich, and ye are the poor.And if ye turn away He will exchange you for some other folk, and they willnot be the likes of you.
