63/1 When the hypocrites come unto thee (O Muhammad), they say: Webear witness that thou art indeed Allah's messenger. And Allah knoweth thatthou art indeed His messenger, and Allah beareth witness that thehypocrites indeed are speaking falsely.
63/2 They make their faith a pretext so that they may turn (men)from the way of Allah. Verily evil is that which they are wont to do,
63/3 That is because they believed, then disbelieved, thereforetheir hearts are sealed so that they understand not.
63/4 And when thou seest them their figures please thee; and ifthey speak thou givest ear unto their speech. (They are) as though theywere blocks of wood in striped cloaks. They deem every shout to be againstthem. They are the enemy, so beware of them. Allah confound them! How theyare perverted!
63/5 And when it is said unto them: Come! The messenger of Allahwill ask forgiveness for you! they avert their faces and thou seest themturning away, disdainful.
63/6 Whether thou ask forgiveness for them or ask not forgivenessfor them is all one for them; Allah will not forgive them. Lo! Allahguideth not the evil-living folk.
63/7 They it is who say: Spend not on behalf of those (who dwell)with Allah's messenger that they may disperse (and go away from you); whenAllah's are the treasures of the heavens and the earth; but the hypocritescomprehend not.
63/8 They say: Surely, if we return to Al-Madinah the mightier willsoon drive out the weaker; when might belongeth to Allah and to Hismessenger and to the believers; but the hypocrites know not.
63/9 O ye who believe! Let not your wealth nor your childrendistract you from remembrance of Allah. Those who do so, they are thelosers.
63/10 And spend of that wherewith We have provided you before deathcometh unto one of you and he saith: My Lord! If only thou wouldst reprieveme for a little while, then I would give alms and be among the righteous.
63/11 But Allah reprieveth no soul when its term cometh, and Allahis Informed of what ye do.
