73/1 O thou wrapped up in thy raiment!
73/2 Keep vigil the night long, save a little -
73/3 A half thereof, or abate a little thereof
73/4 Or add (a little) thereto - and chant the Qur'an in measure,
73/5 For we shall charge thee with a word of weight.
73/6 Lo! the vigil of the night is (a time) when impression is morekeen and speech more certain.
73/7 Lo! thou hast by day a chain of business.
73/8 So remember the name of thy Lord and devote thyself with acomplete devotion -
73/9 Lord of the East and the West; there is no Allah save Him; sochoose thou Him alone for thy defender -
73/10 And bear with patience what they utter, and part from themwith a fair leave-taking.
73/11 Leave Me to deal with the deniers, lords of ease and comfort(in this life); and do thou respite them awhile.
73/12 Lo! with Us are heavy fetters and a raging fire,
73/13 And food which choketh (the partaker), and a painful doom
73/14 On the day when the earth and the hills rock, and the hillsbecome a heap of running sand.
73/15 Lo! We have sent unto you a messenger as witness against you,even as We sent unto Pharaoh a messenger.
73/16 But Pharaoh rebelled against the messenger, whereupon Weseized him with no gentle grip.
73/17 Then how, if ye disbelieve, will ye protect yourselves uponthe day which will turn children grey,
73/18 The very heaven being then rent asunder. His promise is to befulfilled.
73/19 Lo! This is a Reminder. Let him who will, then, choose a wayunto his Lord.
73/20 Lo! thy Lord knoweth how thou keepest vigil sometimes nearlytwo-thirds of the night, or (sometimes) half or a third thereof, as do aparty of those with thee. Allah measureth the night and the day. He knoweththat ye count it not, and turneth unto you in mercy. Recite, then, of theQur'an that which is easy for you. He knoweth that there are sick folkamong you, while others travel in the land in search of Allah's bounty, andothers (still) are fighting for the cause of Allah. So recite of it thatwhich is easy (for you), and establish worship and pay the poor-due, and(so) lend unto Allah a goodly loan. Whatsoever good ye send before you foryour souls, ye will find it with Allah, better and greater in therecompense. And seek forgiveness of Allah. Lo! Allah is Forgiving,Merciful.
