16/1 The commandment of Allah will come to pass, so seek not ye tohasten it. Glorified and Exalted be He above all that they associate (withHim).
16/2 He sendeth down the angels with the Spirit of His command untowhom He will of His bondmen, (saying): Warn mankind that there is no Allahsave Me, so keep your duty unto Me.
16/3 He hath created the heavens and the earth with truth. High beHe Exalted above all that they associate (with Him).
16/4 He hath created man from a drop of fluid, yet behold! he is anopen opponent.
16/5 And the cattle hath He created, whence ye have warm clothingand uses, and whereof ye eat;
16/6 And wherein is beauty for you, when ye bring them home, andwhen ye take them out to pasture.
16/7 And they bear your loads for you unto a land ye could notreach save with great trouble to yourselves. Lo! your Lord is Full of Pity,Merciful.
16/8 And horses and mules and asses (hath He created) that ye mayride them, and for ornament. And He createth that which ye know not.
16/9 And Allah's is the direction of the way, and some (roads) gonot straight. And had He willed He would have led you all aright.
16/10 He it is Who sendeth down water from the sky, whence ye havedrink, and whence are trees on which ye send your beasts to pasture.
16/11 Therewith He causeth crops to grow for you, and the olive andthe date-palm and grapes and all kinds of fruit. Lo! herein is indeed aportent for people who reflect.
16/12 And He hath constrained the night and the day and the sun andthe moon to be of service unto you, and the stars are made subservient byHis command. Lo! herein indeed are portents for people who have sense.
16/13 And whatsoever He hath created for you in the earth of divershues, lo! therein is indeed a portent for people who take heed.
16/14 And He it is Who hath constrained the sea to be of servicethat ye eat fresh meat from thence, and bring forth from thence ornamentswhich ye wear. And thou seest the ships ploughing it that ye (mankind) mayseek of His bounty and that haply ye may give thanks.
16/15 And He hath cast into the earth firm hills that it quake notwith you, and streams and roads that ye may find a way.
16/16 And landmarks (too), and by the star they find a way.
16/17 Is He then Who createth as him who createth not? Will ye notthen remember?
16/18 And if ye would count the favour of Allah ye cannot reckon it.Lo! Allah is indeed Forgiving, Merciful.
16/19 And Allah knoweth that which ye keep hidden and that which yeproclaim.
16/20 Those unto whom they cry beside Allah created naught, but arethemselves created.
16/21 (They are) dead, not living. And they know not when they willbe raised.
16/22 Your Allah is One Allah. But as for those who believe not in theHereafter their hearts refuse to know, for they are proud.
16/23 Assuredly Allah knoweth that which they keep hidden and thatwhich they proclaim. Lo! He loveth not the proud.
16/24 And when it is said unto them: What hath your Lord revealed?they say: (Mere) fables of the men of old,
16/25 That they may bear their burdens undiminished on the Day ofResurrection, with somewhat of the burdens of those whom they misleadwithout knowledge. Ah! evil is that which they bear!
16/26 Those before them plotted, so Allah struck at the foundationsof their building, and then the roof fell down upon them from above them,and the doom came on them whence they knew not;
16/27 Then on the Day of Resurrection He will disgrace them and willsay: Where are My partners, for whose sake ye opposed (My guidance)? Thosewho have been given knowledge will say: Disgrace this day and evil are uponthe disbelievers,
16/28 Whom the angels cause to die while they are wrongingthemselves. Then will they make full submission (saying): We used not to doany wrong. Nay! Surely Allah is Knower of what ye used to do.
16/29 So enter the gates of hell, to dwell therein for ever. Woefulindeed will be the lodging of the arrogant.
16/30 And it is said unto those who ward off (evil): What hath yourLord revealed? They say: Good. For those who do good in this world there isa good (reward) and the home of the Hereafter will be better. Pleasantindeed will be the home of those who ward off (evil) -
16/31 Gardens of Eden which they enter, underneath which riversflow, wherein they have what they will. Thus Allah repayeth those who wardoff (evil),
16/32 Those whom the angels cause to die (when they are) good. Theysay: Peace be unto you! Enter the Garden because of what ye used to do.
16/33 Await they aught say that the angels should come unto them orthy Lord's command should come to pass? Even so did those before them.Allah wronged them not, but they did wrong themselves,
16/34 So that the evils of what they did smote them, and that whichthey used to mock surrounded them.
16/35 And the idolaters say: Had Allah willed, we had not worshippedaught beside Him, we and our fathers, nor had we forbidden aught without(command from) Him. Even so did those before them. Are the messengerscharged with aught save plain conveyance (of the message)?
16/36 And verily We have raised in every nation a messenger,(proclaiming): Serve Allah and shun false gods. Then some of them (therewere) whom Allah guided, and some of them (there were) upon whom error hadjust hold. Do but travel in the land and see the nature of the consequencefor the deniers!
16/37 Even if thou (O Muhammad) desirest their right guidance, stillAllah assuredly will not guide him who misleadeth. Such have no helpers.
16/38 And they swear by Allah their most binding oaths (that) Allahwill not raise up him who dieth. Nay, but it is a promise (binding) uponHim in truth, but most of mankind know not,
16/39 That He may explain unto them that wherein they differ, andthat those who disbelieved may know that they were liars.
16/40 And Our word unto a thing, when We intend it, is only that Wesay unto it: Be! and it is.
16/41 And those who became fugitives for the cause of Allah afterthey had been oppressed, We verily shall give them goodly lodging in theworld, and surely the reward of the Hereafter is greater, if they butknew;
16/42 Such as are steadfast and put their trust in Allah.
16/43 And We sent not (as Our messengers) before thee other than menwhom We inspired - Ask the followers of the Remembrance if ye know not! -
16/44 With clear proofs and writings; and We have revealed unto theethe Remembrance that thou mayst explain to mankind that which hath beenrevealed for them, and that haply they may reflect.
16/45 Are they who plan ill-deeds then secure that Allah will notcause the earth to swallow them, or that the doom will not come on themwhence they know not?
16/46 Or that He will not seize them in their going to and fro sothat there be no escape for them?
16/47 Or that He will not seize them with a gradual wasting? Lo! thyLord is indeed Full of Pity, Merciful.
16/48 Have they not observed all things that Allah hath created, howtheir shadows incline to the right and to the left, making prostration untoAllah, and they are lowly?
16/49 And unto Allah maketh prostration whatsoever is in the heavensand whatsoever is in the earth of living creatures, and the angels (also)and they are not proud.
16/50 They fear their Lord above them, and do what they are bidden.
16/51 Allah hath said: Choose not two gods. There is only One Allah.So of Me, Me only, be in awe.
16/52 Unto Him belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens and the earth,and religion is His for ever. Will ye then fear any other than Allah?
16/53 And whatever of comfort ye enjoy, it is from Allah. Then, whenmisfortune reacheth you, unto Him ye cry for help.
16/54 And afterward, when He hath rid you of the misfortune, behold!a set of you attribute partners to their Lord,
16/55 So as to deny that which We have given them. Then enjoy life(while ye may), for ye will come to know.
16/56 And they assign a portion of that which We have given themunto what they know not. By Allah! but ye will indeed be asked concerning(all) that ye used to invent.
16/57 And they assign unto Allah daughters - Be He Glorified! - andunto themselves what they desire;
16/58 When if one of them receiveth tidings of the birth of afemale, his face remaineth darkened, and he is wroth inwardly.
16/59 He hideth himself from the folk because of the evil of thatwhereof he hath had tidings, (asking himself): Shall he keep it incontempt, or bury it beneath the dust. Verily evil is their judgment.
16/60 For those who believe not in the Hereafter is an evilsimilitude, and Allah's is the Sublime Similitude. He is the Mighty, theWise.
16/61 If Allah were to take mankind to task for their wrong-doing,he would not leave hereon a living creature, but He reprieveth them to anappointed term, and when their term cometh they cannot put (it) off an hournor (yet) advance (it).
16/62 And they assign unto Allah that which they (themselves)dislike, and their tongues expound the lie that the better portion will betheirs. Assuredly theirs will be the Fire, and they will be abandoned.
16/63 By Allah, We verily sent messengers unto the nations beforethee, but the devil made their deeds fairseeming unto them. So he is theirpatron this day, and theirs  will be a painful doom.
16/64 And We have revealed the Scripture unto thee only that thoumayst explain unto them that wherein they differ, and (as) a guidance and amercy for a people who believe.
16/65 Allah sendeth down water from the sky and therewith reviveththe earth after her death. Lo! herein is indeed a portent for a folk whohear.
16/66 And lo! in the cattle there is a lesson for you. We give youto drink of that which is in their bellies, from betwixt the refuse and theblood, pure milk palatable to the drinkers.
16/67 And of the fruits of the date-palm, and grapes, whence yederive strong drink and (also) good nourishment. Lo! therein is indeed aportent for people who have sense.
16/68 And thy Lord inspired the bee, saying: Choose thou habitationsin the hills and in the trees and in that which they thatch;
16/69 Then eat of all fruits, and follow the ways of thy Lord, madesmooth (for thee). There cometh forth from their bellies a drink divers ofhues, wherein is healing for mankind. Lo! herein is indeed a portent forpeople who reflect.
16/70 And Allah createth you, then causeth you to die, and among youis he who is brought back to the most abject stage of life, so that heknoweth nothing after (having had) knowledge. Lo! Allah is Knower,Powerful.
16/71 And Allah hath favoured some of you above others in provision.Now those who are more favoured will by no means hand over their provisionto those (slaves) whom their right hands possess, so that they may be equalwith them in respect thereof. Is it then the grace of Allah that theydeny?
16/72 And Allah hath given you wives of your own kind, and hathgiven you, from your wives, sons and grandsons, and hath made provision ofgood things for you. Is it then in vanity that they believe and in thegrace of Allah that they disbelieve?
16/73 And they worship beside Allah that which owneth no provisionwhatsoever for them from the heavens or the earth, nor have they (whom theyworship) any power.
16/74 So coin not similitudes for Allah. Lo! Allah knoweth; ye knownot.
16/75 Allah coineth a similitude: (on the one hand) a (mere) chattelslave, who hath control of nothing, and (on the other hand) one on whom wehave bestowed a fair provision from Us, and he spendeth thereof secretlyand openly. Are they equal? Praise be to Allah! But most of them know not.
16/76 And Allah coineth a similitude: Two men, one of them dumb,having control of nothing, and he is a burden on his owner; whithersoeverhe directeth him to go, he bringeth no good. Is he equal with one whoenjoineth justice and followeth a straight path (of conduct)?
16/77 And unto Allah belongeth the Unseen of the heavens and theearth, and the matter of the Hour (of Doom) is but as a twinkling of theeye, or it is nearer still. Lo! Allah is Able to do all things.
16/78 And Allah brought you forth from the wombs of your mothersknowing nothing, and gave you hearing and sight and hearts that haply yemight give thanks.
16/79 Have they not seen the birds obedient in mid-air? None holdeththem save Allah. Lo! herein, verily, are portents for a people whobelieve.
16/80 And Allah hath given you in your houses an abode, and hathgiven you (also), of the hides of cattle, houses which ye find light (tocarry) on the day of migration and on the day of pitching camp; and oftheir wool and their fur and their hair, caparison and comfort for awhile.
16/81 And Allah hath given you, of that which He hath created,shelter from the sun; and hath given you places of refuge in the mountains,and hath given you coats to ward off the heat from you, and coats (ofarmour) to save you from your own foolhardiness. Thus doth He perfect Hisfavour unto you, in order that ye may surrender (unto Him).
16/82 Then, if they turn away, thy duty (O Muhammad) is but plainconveyance (of the message).
16/83 They know the favour of Allah and then deny it. Most of themare ingrates.
16/84 And (bethink you of) the day when we raise up of every nationa witness, then there is no leave for disbelievers, nor are they allowed tomake amends.
16/85 And when those who did wrong behold the doom, it will not bemade light for them, nor will they be reprieved.
16/86 And when those who ascribed partners to Allah behold thosepartners of theirs, they will say: Our Lord! these are our partners untowhom we used to cry instead of Thee. But they will fling to them thesaying: Lo! ye verily are liars!
16/87 And they proffer unto Allah submission on that day, and allthat they used to invent hath failed them.
16/88 For those who disbelieve and debar (men) from the way ofAllah, We add doom to doom because they wrought corruption,
16/89 And (bethink you of) the day when We raise in every nation awitness against them of their own folk, and We bring thee (Muhammad) as awitness against these. And We reveal the Scripture unto thee as anexposition of all things, and a guidance and a mercy and good tidings forthose who have surrendered (to Allah).
16/90 Lo! Allah enjoineth justice and kindness, and giving tokinsfolk, and forbiddeth lewdness and abomination and wickedness. Heexhorteth you in order that ye may take heed.
16/91 Fulfil the covenant of Allah when ye have covenanted, andbreak not your oaths after the asseveration of them, and after ye have madeAllah surety over you. Lo! Allah knoweth what ye do.
16/92 And be not like unto her who unravelleth the thread, after shehath made it strong, to thin filaments, making your oaths a deceit betweenyou because of a nation being more numerous than (another) nation. Allahonly trieth you thereby, and He verily will explain to you on the Day ofResurrection that wherein ye differed.
16/93 Had Allah willed He could have made you (all) one nation, butHe sendeth whom He will astray and guideth whom He will, and ye will indeedbe asked of what ye used to do.
16/94 Make not your oaths a deceit between you, lest a foot shouldslip after being firmly planted and ye should taste evil forasmuch as yedebarred (men) from the way of Allah, and yours should be an awful doom.
16/95 And purchase not a small gain at the price of Allah'scovenant. Lo! that which Allah hath is better for you, if ye did but know.
16/96 That which ye have wasteth away, and that which Allah hathremaineth. And verily We shall pay those who are steadfast a recompense inproportion to the best of what they used to do.
16/97 Whosoever doeth right, whether male or female, and is abeliever, him verily we shall quicken with good life, and We shall pay thema recompense in proportion to the best of what they used to do.
16/98 And when thou recitest the Qur'an, seek refuge in Allah fromSatan the outcast.
16/99 Lo! he hath no power over those who believe and put trust intheir Lord.
16/100 His power is only over those who make a friend of him, andthose who ascribe partners unto Him (Allah).
16/101 And when We put a revelation in place of (another) revelation,- and Allah knoweth best what He revealeth - they say: Lo! thou art butinventing. Most of them know not.
16/102 Say: The holy Spirit hath delivered it from thy Lord withtruth, that it may confirm (the faith of) those who believe, and asguidance and good tidings for those who have surrendered (to Allah).
16/103 And We know well that they say: Only a man teacheth him. Thespeech of him at whom they falsely hint is outlandish, and this is clearArabic speech.
16/104 Lo! those who disbelieve the revelations of Allah, Allahguideth them not and theirs will be a painful doom.
16/105 Only they invent falsehood who believe not Allah'srevelations, and (only) they are the liars.
16/106 Whoso disbelieveth in Allah after his belief - save him who isforced thereto and whose heart is still content with the Faith - but whosofindeth ease in disbelief: On them is wrath from Allah. Theirs will be anawful doom.
16/107 That is because they have chosen the life of the world ratherthan the Hereafter, and because Allah guideth not the disbelieving folk.
16/108 Such are they whose hearts and ears and eyes Allah hathsealed. And such are the heedless.
16/109 Assuredly in the Hereafter they are the losers.
16/110 Then lo! thy Lord - for those who became fugitives after theyhad been persecuted, and then fought and were steadfast - lo! thy Lordafterward is (for them) indeed Forgiving, Merciful.
16/111 On the Day when every soul will come pleading for itself, andevery soul will be repaid what it did, and they will not be wronged.
16/112 Allah coineth a similitude: a township that dwelt secure andwell content, its provision coming to it in abundance from every side, butit disbelieved in Allah's favours, so Allah made it experience the garb ofdearth and fear because of what they used to do.
16/113 And verily there had come unto them a messenger from amongthem, but they had denied him, and so the torment seized them while theywere wrong-doers.
16/114 So eat of the lawful and good food which Allah hath providedfor you, and thank the bounty of your Lord if it is Him ye serve.
16/115 He hath forbidden for you only carrion and blood andswineflesh and that which hath been immolated in the name of any other thanAllah; but he who is driven thereto, neither craving nor transgressing, lo!then Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
16/116 And speak not, concerning that which your own tongues qualify(as clean or unclean), the falsehood: "This is lawful, and this isforbidden," so that ye invent a lie against Allah. Lo! those who invent alie against Allah will not succeed.
16/117 A brief enjoyment (will be theirs); and theirs a painfuldoom.
16/118 And unto those who are Jews We have forbidden that which Wehave already related unto thee. And We wronged them not, but they were wontto wrong themselves.
16/119 Then lo! thy Lord - for those who do evil in ignorance andafterward repent and amend - lo! (for them) thy Lord is afterward indeedForgiving, Merciful.
16/120 Lo! Abraham was a nation obedient to Allah, by nature upright,and he was not of the idolaters;
16/121 Thankful for His bounties; He chose him and He guided him untoa straight path.
16/122 And We gave him good in the world, and in the Hereafter he isamong the righteous.
16/123 And afterward We inspired thee (Muhammad, saying): Follow thereligion of Abraham, as one by nature upright. He was not of theidolaters.
16/124 The Sabbath was appointed only for those who differedconcerning it, and lo! thy Lord will judge between them on the Day ofResurrection concerning that wherein they used to differ.
16/125 Call unto the way of thy Lord with wisdom and fairexhortation, and reason with them in the better way. Lo! thy Lord is BestAware of him who strayeth from His way, and He is Best Aware of those whogo aright.
16/126 If ye punish, then punish with the like of that wherewith yewere afflicted. But if ye endure patiently, verily it is better for thepatient.
16/127 Endure thou patiently (O Muhammad). Thine endurance is only by(the help of) Allah. Grieve not for them, and be not in distress because ofthat which they devise.
16/128 Lo! Allah is with those who keep their duty unto Him and thosewho are doers of good.
