4/1 O mankind! Be careful of your duty to your Lord Who createdyou from a single soul and from it created its mate and from them twainhath spread abroad a multitude of men and women. Be careful of your dutytoward Allah in Whom ye claim (your rights) of one another, and toward thewombs (that bare you). Lo! Allah hath been a watcher over you.
4/2 Give unto orphans their wealth. Exchange not the good for thebad (in your management thereof) nor absorb their wealth into your ownwealth. Lo! that would be a great sin.
4/3 And if ye fear that ye will not deal fairly by the orphans,marry of the women, who seem good to you, two or three or four; and if yefear that ye cannot do justice (to so many) then one (only) or (thecaptives) that your right hands possess. Thus it is more likely that yewill not do injustice.
4/4 And give unto the women (whom ye marry) free gift of theirmarriage portions; but if they of their own accord remit unto you a partthereof, then ye are welcome to absorb it (in your wealth).
4/5 Give not unto the foolish (what is in) your (keeping of their)wealth, which Allah hath given you to maintain; but feed and clothe themfrom it, and speak kindly unto them.
4/6 Prove orphans till they reach the marriageable age; then, ifye find them of sound judgment, deliver over unto them their fortune; anddevour it not by squandering and in haste lest they should grow up Whoso(of the guardians) is rich, let him abstain generously (from taking of theproperty of orphans); and whoso is poor let him take thereof in reason (forhis guardianship). And when ye deliver up their fortune unto orphans, have(the transaction) witnessed in their presence. Allah sufficeth as aReckoner.
4/7 Unto the men (of a family) belongeth a share of that whichparents and near kindred leave, and unto the women a share of that whichparents and near kindred leave, whether it be little or much - a legalshare.
4/8 And when kinsfolk and orphans and the needy are present at thedivision (of the heritage), bestow on them therefrom and speak kindly untothem.
4/9 And let those fear (in their behaviour toward orphans) who ifthey left behind them weak offspring would be afraid for them. So let themmind their duty to Allah, and speak justly.
4/10 Lo! Those who devour the wealth of orphans wrongfully, they dobut swallow fire into their bellies, and they will be exposed to burningflame.
4/11 Allah chargeth you concerning (the provision for) yourchildren: to the male the equivalent of the portion of two females, and ifthere be women more than two, then theirs is two-thirds of the inheritance,and if there be one (only) then the half. And to each of his parents asixth of the inheritance, if he have a son; and if he have no son and hisparents are his heirs, then to his mother appertaineth the third; and if hehave brethren, then to his mother appertaineth the sixth, after any legacyhe may have bequeathed, or debt (hath been paid). Your parents and yourchildren: Ye know not which of them is nearer unto you in usefulness. It isan injunction from Allah. Lo! Allah is Knower, Wise.
4/12 And unto you belongeth a half of that which your wives leave,if they have no child; but if they have a child then unto you the fourth ofthat which they leave, after any legacy they may have bequeathed, or debt(they may have contracted, hath been paid). And unto them belongeth thefourth of that which ye leave if ye have no child, but if ye have a childthen the eighth of that which ye leave, after any legacy ye may havebequeathed, or debt (ye may have contracted, hath been paid). And if a manor a woman have a distant heir (having left neither parent nor child), andhe (or she) have a brother or a sister (only on the mother's side) then toeach of them twain (the brother and the sister) the sixth, and if they bemore than two, then they shall be sharers in the third, after any legacythat may have been bequeathed or debt (contracted) not injuring (the heirsby willing away more than a third of the heritage) hath been paid. Acommandment from Allah. Allah is Knower, Indulgent.
4/13 These are the limits (imposed by) Allah. Whoso obeyeth Allahand His messenger, He will make him enter Gardens underneath which riversflow, where such will dwell for ever. That will be the great success.
4/14 And whoso disobeyeth Allah and His messenger and transgressethHis limits, He will make him enter Fire, where he will dwell for ever; hiswill be a shameful doom.
4/15 As for those of your women who are guilty of lewdness, call towitness four of you against them. And if they testify (to the truth of theallegation) then confine them to the houses until death take them or(until) Allah appoint for them a way (through new legislation).
4/16 And as for the two of you who are guilty thereof, punish themboth. And if they repent and improve, then let them be. Lo! Allah is everrelenting, Merciful.
4/17 Forgiveness is only incumbent on Allah toward those who doevil in ignorance (and) then turn quickly (in repentance) to Allah. Theseare they toward whom Allah relenteth. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.
4/18 The forgiveness is not for those who do ill-deeds until, whendeath attendeth upon one of them, he saith: Lo! I repent now; nor yet forthose who die while they are disbelievers. For such We have prepared apainful doom.
4/19 O ye who believe! It is not lawful for you forcibly to inheritthe women (of your deceased kinsmen), nor (that) ye should put constraintupon them that ye may take away a part of that which ye have given them,unless they be guilty of flagrant lewdness. But consort with them inkindness, for if ye hate them it may happen that ye hate a thing whereinAllah hath placed much good.
4/20 And if ye wish to exchange one wife for another and ye havegiven unto one of them a sum of money (however great), take nothing fromit. Would ye take it by the way of calumny and open wrong?
4/21 How can ye take it (back) after one of you hath gone in untothe other, and they have taken a strong pledge from you?
4/22 And marry not those women whom your fathers married, exceptwhat hath already happened (of that nature) in the past. Lo! it was everlewdness and abomination, and an evil way.
4/23 Forbidden unto you are your mothers, and your daughters, andyour sisters, and your father's sisters, and your mother's sisters, andyour brother's daughters and your sister's daughters, and yourfoster-mothers, and your foster-sisters, and your mothers-in-law, and yourstep-daughters who are under your protection (born) of your women unto whomye have gone in - but if ye have not gone in unto them, then it is no sinfor you (to marry their daughters) - and the wives of your sons who(spring) from your own loins. And (it is forbidden unto you) that ye shouldhave two sisters together, except what hath already happened (of thatnature) in the past. Lo! Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.
4/24 And all married women (are forbidden unto you) save those(captives) whom your right hands possess. It is a decree of Allah for you.Lawful unto you are all beyond those mentioned, so that ye seek them withyour wealth in honest wedlock, not debauchery. And those of whom ye seekcontent (by marrying them), give unto them their portions as a duty. Andthere is no sin for you in what ye do by mutual agreement after the duty(hath been done). Lo! Allah is ever Knower, Wise.
4/25 And whoso is not able to afford to marry free, believingwomen, let them marry from the believing maids whom your right handspossess. Allah knoweth best (concerning) your faith. Ye (proceed) one fromanother; so wed them by permission of their folk, and give unto them theirportions in kindness, they being honest, not debauched nor of looseconduct. And if when they are honourably married they commit lewdness theyshall incur the half of the punishment (prescribed) for free women (in thatcase). This is for him among you who feareth to commit sin. But to havepatience would be better for you. Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
4/26 Allah would explain to you and guide you by the examples ofthose who were before you, and would turn to you in mercy. Allah is Knower,Wise.
4/27 And Allah would turn to you in mercy; but those who followvain desires would have you go tremendously astray.
4/28 Allah would make the burden light for you, for man was createdweak.
4/29 O ye who believe! Squander not your wealth among yourselves invanity, except it be a trade by mutual consent, and kill not one another.Lo! Allah is ever Merciful unto you.
4/30 Whoso doeth that through aggression and injustice, we shallcast him into Fire, and that is ever easy for Allah.
4/31 If ye avoid the great (things) which ye are forbidden, We willremit from you your evil deeds and make you enter at a noble gate.
4/32 And covet not the thing in which Allah hath made some of youexcel others. Unto men a fortune from that which they have earned, and untowomen a fortune from that which they have earned. (Envy not one another)but ask Allah of His bounty. Lo! Allah is ever Knower of all things.
4/33 And unto each We have appointed heirs of that which parentsand near kindred leave; and as for those with whom your right hands havemade a covenant, give them their due. Lo! Allah is ever Witness over allthings.
4/34 Men are in charge of women, because Allah hath made the one ofthem to excel the other, and because they spend of their property (for thesupport of women). So good women are the obedient, guarding in secret thatwhich Allah hath guarded. As for those from whom ye fear rebellion,admonish them and banish them to beds apart, and scourge them. Then if theyobey you, seek not a way against them. Lo! Allah is ever High, Exalted,Great.
4/35 And if ye fear a breach between them twain (the man and wife),appoint an arbiter from his folk and an arbiter from her folk. If theydesire amendment Allah will make them of one mind. Lo! Allah is everKnower, Aware.
4/36 And serve Allah. Ascribe no thing as partner unto Him. (Show)kindness unto parents, and unto near kindred, and orphans, and the needy,and unto the neighbour who is of kin (unto you) and the neighbour who isnot of kin, and the fellow-traveller and the wayfarer and (the slaves) whomyour right hands possess. Lo! Allah loveth not such as are proud andboastful,
4/37 Who hoard their wealth and enjoin avarice on others, and hidethat which Allah hath bestowed upon them of His bounty. For disbelievers Weprepare a shameful doom;
4/38 And (also) those who spend their wealth in order to be seen ofmen, and believe not in Allah nor the Last Day. Whoso taketh Satan for acomrade, a bad comrade hath he.
4/39 What have they (to fear) if they believe in Allah and the LastDay and spend (aright) of that which Allah hath bestowed upon them, whenAllah is ever Aware of them (and all they do)?
4/40 Lo! Allah wrongeth not even of the weight of an ant; and ifthere is a good deed, He will double it and will give (the doer) from Hispresence an immense reward.
4/41 But how (will it be with them) when We bring of every people awitness, and We bring thee (O Muhammad) a witness against these?
4/42 On that day those who disbelieved and disobeyed the messengerwill wish that they were level with the ground, and they can hide no factfrom Allah.
4/43 O ye who believe! Draw not near unto prayer when ye aredrunken, till ye know that which ye utter, nor when ye are polluted, savewhen journeying upon the road, till ye have bathed. And if ye be ill, or ona journey, or one of you cometh from the closet, or ye have touched women,and ye find not water, then go to high clean soil and rub your faces andyour hands (therewith). Lo! Allah is Benign, Forgiving.
4/44 Seest thou not those unto whom a portion of the Scripture hathbeen given, how they purchase error, and seek to make you (Muslims) errfrom the right way?
4/45 Allah knoweth best (who are) your enemies. Allah is sufficientas a Guardian, and Allah is sufficient as a Supporter.
4/46 Some of those who are Jews change words from their context andsay: "We hear and disobey; hear thou as one who heareth not" and "Listen tous!" distorting with their tongues and slandering religion.  If they hadsaid: "We hear and we obey: hear thou, and look at us" it had been betterfor them, and more upright. But Allah hath cursed them for their disbelief,so they believe not, save a few.
4/47 O ye unto whom the Scripture hath been given! Believe in whatWe have revealed confirming that which ye possess, before We destroycountenances so as to confound them, or curse them as We cursed theSabbath-breakers (of old time). The commandment of Allah is alwaysexecuted.
4/48 Lo! Allah forgiveth not that a partner should be ascribed untoHim. He forgiveth (all) save that to whom He will. Whoso ascribeth partnersto Allah, he hath indeed invented a tremendous sin.
4/49 Hast thou not seen those who praise themselves for purity?Nay, Allah purifieth whom He will, and they will not be wronged even thehair upon a date-stone.
4/50 See, how they invent lies about Allah! That of itself isflagrant sin.
4/51 Hast thou not seen those unto whom a portion of the Scripturehath been given, how they believe in idols and false deities, and how theysay of those (idolaters) who disbelieve: "These are more rightly guidedthan those who believe"?
4/52 Those are they whom Allah hath cursed, and he whom Allah hathcursed, thou (O Muhammad) wilt find for him no helper.
4/53 Or have they even a share in the Sovereignty? Then in thatcase, they would not give mankind even the speck on a date-stone.
4/54 Or are they jealous of mankind because of that which Allah ofHis bounty hath bestowed upon them? For We bestowed upon the house ofAbraham (of old) the Scripture and wisdom, and We bestowed on them a mightykingdom.
4/55 And of them were (some) who believed therein and of them were(some) who turned away from it. Hell is sufficient for (their) burning.
4/56 Lo! Those who disbelieve Our revelations, We shall expose themto the Fire. As often as their skins are consumed We shall exchange themfor fresh skins that they may taste the torment. Lo! Allah is ever Mighty,Wise.
4/57 And as for those who believe and do good works, We shall makethem enter Gardens underneath which rivers flow - to dwell therein forever; there for them are pure companions - and We shall make them enterplenteous shade.
4/58 Lo! Allah commandeth you that ye restore deposits to theirowners, and, if ye judge between mankind, that ye judge justly. Lo! comelyis this which Allah admonisheth you. Lo! Allah is ever Hearer, Seer.
4/59 O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the messenger and thoseof you who are in authority; and if ye have a dispute concerning anymatter, refer it to Allah and the messenger if ye are (in truth) believersin Allah and the Last Day. That is better and more seemly in the end.
4/60 Hast thou not seen those who pretend that they believe in thatwhich is revealed unto thee and that which was revealed before thee, howthey would go for judgment (in their disputes) to false deities when theyhave been ordered to abjure them? Satan would mislead them far astray.
4/61 And when it is said unto them: Come unto that which Allah hathrevealed and unto the messenger, thou seest the hypocrites turn from theewith aversion.
4/62 How would it be if a misfortune smote them because of thatwhich their own hands have sent before (them)? Then would they come untothee, swearing by Allah that they were seeking naught but harmony andkindness.
4/63 Those are they, the secrets of whose hearts Allah knoweth. Sooppose them and admonish them, and address them in plain terms about theirsouls.
4/64 We sent no messenger save that he should be obeyed by Allah'sleave. And if, when they had wronged themselves, they had but come untothee and asked forgiveness of Allah, and asked forgiveness of themessenger, they would have found Allah Forgiving, Merciful.
4/65 But nay, by thy Lord, they will not believe (in truth) untilthey make thee judge of what is in dispute between them and find withinthemselves no dislike of that which thou decidest, and submit with fullsubmission.
4/66 And if We had decreed for them: Lay down your lives or goforth from your dwellings, but few of them would have done it; though ifthey did what they are exhorted to do it would be better for them, and morestrengthening;
4/67 And then We should bestow upon them from Our presence animmense reward,
4/68 And should guide them unto a straight path.
4/69 Whoso obeyeth Allah and the messenger, they are with thoseunto whom Allah hath shown favour, of the prophets and the saints and themartyrs and the righteous. The best of company are they!
4/70 That is bounty from Allah, and Allah sufficeth as Knower.
4/71 O ye who believe! Take your precautions, then advance theproven ones, or advance all together.
4/72 Lo! among you there is he who loitereth; and if disasterovertook you, he would say: Allah hath been gracious unto me since I wasnot present with them.
4/73 And if a bounty from Allah befell you, he would surely cry, asif there had been no love between you and him: Oh, would that I had beenwith them, then should I have achieved a great success!
4/74 Let those fight in the way of Allah who sell the life of thisworld for the other. Whoso fighteth in the way of Allah, be he slain or behe victorious, on him We shall bestow a vast reward.
4/75 How should ye not fight for the cause of Allah and of thefeeble among men and of the women and the children who are crying: OurLord! Bring us forth from out this town of which the people are oppressors!Oh, give us from thy presence some protecting friend! Oh, give us from Thypresence some defender!
4/76 Those who believe do battle for the cause of Allah; and thosewho disbelieve do battle for the cause of idols. So fight the minions ofthe devil. Lo! the devil's strategy is ever weak.
4/77 Hast thou not seen those unto whom it was said: Withhold yourhands, establish worship and pay the poordue, but when fighting wasprescribed for them behold! a party of them fear mankind even as their fearof Allah or with greater fear, and say: Our Lord! Why hast Thou ordainedfighting for us? If only Thou wouldst give us respite yet a while! Say(unto them, O Muhammad): The comfort of this world is scant; the Hereafterwill be better for him who wardeth off (evil); and ye will not be wrongedthe down upon a date-stone.
4/78 Wheresoever ye may be, death will overtake you, even though yewere in lofty towers. Yet if a happy thing befalleth them they say: This isfrom Allah; and if an evil thing befalleth them they say: This is of thydoing (O Muhammad). Say (unto them): All is from Allah. What is amiss withthese people that they come not nigh to understand a happening?
4/79 Whatever of good befalleth thee (O man) it is from Allah, andwhatever of ill befalleth thee it is from thyself. We have sent thee(Muhammad) as a messenger unto mankind and Allah is sufficient as Witness.
4/80 Whoso obeyeth the messenger hath obeyed Allah, and whosoturneth away: We have not sent thee as a warder over them.
4/81 And they say: (It is) obedience; but when they have gone forthfrom thee a party of them spend the night in planning other than what thousayest. Allah recordeth what they plan by night. So oppose them and put thytrust in Allah. Allah is sufficient as Trustee.
4/82 Will they not then ponder on the Qur'an? If it had been fromother than Allah they would have found therein much incongruity.
4/83 And if any tidings, whether of safety or fear, come unto them,they noise it abroad, whereas if they had referred it to the messenger andto such of them as are in authority, those among them who are able to thinkout the matter would have known it. If it had not been for the grace ofAllah upon you and His mercy ye would have followed Satan, save a few (ofyou).
4/84 So fight (O Muhammad) in the way of Allah Thou art not taxed(with the responsibility for anyone) except thyself - and urge on thebelievers. Peradventure Allah will restrain the might of those whodisbelieve. Allah is stronger in might and stronger in inflictingpunishment.
4/85 Whoso interveneth in a good cause will have the rewardthereof, and whoso interveneth in an evil cause will bear the consequencethereof. Allah overseeth all things.
4/86 When ye are greeted with a greeting, greet ye with a betterthan it or return it. Lo! Allah taketh count of all things.
4/87 Allah! There is no Allah save Him. He gathereth you all unto aDay of Resurrection whereof there is no doubt. Who is more true instatement than Allah?
4/88 What aileth you that ye are become two parties regarding thehypocrites, when Allah cast them back (to disbelief) because of what theyearned? Seek ye to guide him whom Allah hath sent astray? He whom Allahsendeth astray, for him thou (O MUhammad) canst not find a road.
4/89 They long that ye should disbelieve even as they disbelieve,that ye may be upon a level (with them). So choose not friends from themtill they forsake their homes in the way of Allah; if they turn back (toenmity) then take them and kill them wherever ye find them, and choose nofriend nor helper from among them,
4/90 Except those who seek refuge with a people between whom andyou there is a covenant, or (those who) come unto you because their heartsforbid them to make war on you or make war on their own folk. Had Allahwilled He could have given them power over you so that assuredly they wouldhave fought you. So, if they hold aloof from you and wage not war againstyou and offer you peace, Allah alloweth you no way against them.
4/91 Ye will find others who desire that they should have securityfrom you, and security from their own folk. So often as they are returnedto hostility they are plunged therein. If they keep not aloof from you noroffer you peace nor hold their hands, then take them and kill them whereverye find them. Against such We have given you clear warrant.
4/92 It is not for a believer to kill a believer unless (it be) bymistake. He who hath killed a believer by mistake must set free a believingslave, and pay the blood-money to the family of the slain, unless theyremit it as a charity. If he (the victim) be of a people hostile unto you,and he is a believer, then (the penance is) to set free a believing slave.And if he cometh of a folk between whom and you there is a covenant, thenthe blood-money must be paid unto his folk and (also) a believing slavemust be set free. And whoso hath not the wherewithal must fast twoconsecutive months. A penance from Allah. Allah is Knower, Wise.
4/93 Whoso slayeth a believer of set purpose, his reward is hellfor ever. Allah is wroth against him and He hath cursed him and preparedfor him an awful doom.
4/94 O ye who believe! When ye go forth (to fight) in the way ofAllah, be careful to discriminate, and say not unto one who offereth youpeace: "Thou art not a believer," seeking the chance profits of this life(so that ye may despoil him). With Allah are plenteous spoils. Even thus(as he now is) were ye before; but Allah hath since then been gracious untoyou. Therefore take care to discriminate. Allah is ever Informed of what yedo.
4/95 Those of the believers who sit still, other than those whohave a (disabling) hurt, are not on an equality with those who strive inthe way of Allah with their wealth and lives. Allah hath conferred on thosewho strive with their wealth and lives a rank above the sedentary. Untoeach Allah hath promised good, but He hath bestowed on those who strive agreat reward above the sedentary;
4/96 Degrees of rank from Him, and forgiveness and mercy. Allah isever Forgiving, Merciful.
4/97 Lo! as for those whom the angels take (in death) while theywrong themselves, (the angels) will ask: In what were ye engaged? They willsay: We were oppressed in the land. (The angels) will say: Was not Allah'searth spacious that ye could have migrated therein? As for such, theirhabitation will be hell, an evil journey's end;
4/98 Except the feeble among men, and the women, and the children,who are unable to devise a plan and are not shown a way.
4/99 As for such, it may be that Allah will pardon them. Allah isever Clement, Forgiving.
4/100 Whoso migrateth for the cause of Allah will find much refugeand abundance in the earth, and whoso forsaketh his home, a fugitive untoAllah and His messenger, and death overtaketh him, his reward is thenincumbent on Allah. Allah is ever Forgiving, Merciful.
4/101 And when ye go forth in the land, it is no sin for you tocurtail (your) worship if ye fear that those who disbelieve may attack you.In truth the disbelievers are an open enemy to you.
4/102 And when thou (O Muhammad) art among them and arrangest(their) worship for them, let only a party of them stand with thee (toworship) and let them take their arms. Then when they have performed theirprostrations let them fall to the rear and let another party come that hathnot worshipped and let them worship with thee, and let them take theirprecaution and their arms. Those who disbelieve long for you to neglectyour arms and your baggage that they may attack you once for all. It is nosin for you to lay aside your arms, if rain impedeth you or ye are sick.But take your precaution. Lo! Allah prepareth for the disbelievers shamefulpunishment.
4/103 When ye have performed the act of worship, remember Allah,standing, sitting and reclining. And when ye are in safety, observe properworship. Worship at fixed times hath been enjoined on the believers.
4/104 Relent not in pursuit of the enemy. If ye are suffering, lo!they suffer even as ye suffer and ye hope from Allah that for which theycannot hope. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.
4/105 Lo! We reveal unto thee the Scripture with the truth, thatthou mayst judge between mankind by that which Allah showeth thee. And benot thou a pleader for the treacherous;
4/106 And seek forgiveness of Allah. Lo! Allah is ever Forgiving,Merciful.
4/107 And plead not on behalf of (people) who deceive themselves.Lo! Allah loveth not one who is treacherous and sinful.
4/108 They seek to hide from men and seek not to hide from Allah. Heis with them when by night they hold discourse displeasing unto Him. Allahever surroundeth what they do.
4/109 Ho! ye are they who pleaded for them in the life of the world.But who will plead with Allah for them on the Day of Resurrection, or whowill then be their defender?
4/110 Yet whoso doeth evil or wrongeth his own soul, then seekethpardon of Allah, will find Allah Forgiving, Merciful.
4/111 Whoso committeth sin committeth it only against himself. Allahis ever Knower, Wise.
4/112 And whoso committeth a delinquency or crime, then throweth(the blame) thereof upon the innocent, hath burdened himself with falsehoodand a flagrant crime.
4/113 But for the grace of Allah upon thee (Muhammad), and Hismercy, a party of them had resolved to mislead thee, but they will misleadonly themselves and they will hurt thee not at all. Allah revealeth untothee the Scripture and wisdom, and teacheth thee that which thou knewestnot. The grace of Allah toward thee hath been infinite.
4/114 There is no good in much of their secret conferences save (in)him who enjoineth almsgiving and kindness and peace-making among thepeople. Whoso doeth that, seeking the good pleasure of Allah, We shallbestow on him a vast reward.
4/115 And whoso opposeth the messenger after the guidance (of Allah)hath been manifested unto him, and followeth other than the believer's way,We appoint for him that unto which he himself hath turned, and expose himunto hell - a hapless journey's end!
4/116 Lo! Allah pardoneth not that partners should be ascribed untoHim. He pardoneth all save that to whom He will. Whoso ascribeth partnersunto Allah hath wandered far astray.
4/117 They invoke in His stead only females; they pray to none elsethan Satan, a rebel
4/118 Whom Allah cursed, and he said: Surely I will take of Thybondmen an appointed portion,
4/119 And surely I will lead them astray, and surely I will arousedesires in them, and surely I will command them and they will cut thecattle' ears, and surely I will command them and they will change Allah'screation. Whoso chooseth Satan for a patron instead of Allah is verily aloser and his loss is manifest.
4/120 He promiseth them and stirreth up desires in them, and Satanpromiseth them only to beguile.
4/121 For such, their habitation will be hell, and they will find norefuge therefrom.
4/122 But as for those who believe and do good works We shall bringthem into Gardens underneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide forever. It is a promise from Allah in truth; and who can be more truthfulthan Allah in utterance?
4/123 It will not be in accordance with your desires, nor thedesires of the People of the Scripture. He who doeth wrong will have therecompense thereof, and will not find against Allah any protecting friendor helper.
4/124 And whoso doeth good works, whether of male or female, and he(or she) is a believer, such will enter paradise and they will not bewronged the dint in a date-stone.
4/125 Who is better in religion than he who surrendereth his purposeto Allah while doing good (to men) and followeth the tradition of Abraham,the upright? Allah (Himself) chose Abraham for friend.
4/126 Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth. Allah ever surroundeth all things.
4/127 They consult thee concerning women. Say: Allah giveth youdecree concerning them, and the Scripture which hath been recited unto you(giveth decree), concerning female orphans and those unto whom ye give notthat which is ordained for them though ye desire to marry them, and(concerning) the weak among children, and that ye should deal justly withorphans. Whatever good ye do, lo! Allah is ever Aware of it.
4/128 If a woman feareth ill treatment from her husband, ordesertion, it is no sin for them twain if they make terms of peace betweenthemselves. Peace is better. But greed hath been made present in the minds(of men). If ye do good and keep from evil, lo! Allah is ever Informed ofwhat ye do.
4/129 Ye will not be able to deal equally between (your) wives,however much ye wish (to do so). But turn not altogether away (from one),leaving her as in suspense. If ye do good and keep from evil, lo! Allah isever Forgiving, Merciful.
4/130 But if they separate, Allah will compensate each out of Hisabundance. Allah is ever All-Embracing, All-Knowing.
4/131 Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth. And We charged those who received the Scripturebefore you, and (We charge) you, that ye keep your duty toward Allah. Andif ye disbelieve, lo! unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth, and Allah is ever Absolute, Owner of Praise.
4/132 Unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavens andwhatsoever is in the earth. And Allah is sufficient as Defender.
4/133 If He will, He can remove you, O people, and produce others(in your stead). Allah is Able to do that.
4/134 Whoso desireth the reward of the world, (let him know that)with Allah is the reward of the world and the Hereafter. Allah is everHearer, Seer.
4/135 O ye who believe! Be ye staunch in justice, witnesses forAllah, even though it be against yourselves or (your) parents or (your)kindred, whether (the case be of) a rich man or a poor man, for Allah isnearer unto both (them ye are). So follow not passion lest ye lapse (fromtruth) and if ye lapse or fall away, then lo! Allah is ever Informed ofwhat ye do.
4/136 O ye who believe! Believe in Allah and His messenger and theScripture which He hath revealed unto His messenger, and the Scripturewhich He revealed aforetime. Whoso disbelieveth in Allah and His angels andHis scriptures and His messengers and the Last Day, he verily hath wanderedfar astray.
4/137 Lo! those who believe, then disbelieve and then (again)believe, then disbelieve, and then increase in disbelief, Allah will neverpardon them, nor will He guide them unto a way.
4/138 Bear unto the hypocrites the tidings that for them there is apainful doom;
4/139 Those who chose disbelievers for their friends instead ofbelievers! Do they look for power at their hands? Lo! all powerappertaineth to Allah.
4/140 He hath already revealed unto you in the Scripture that, whenye hear the revelations of Allah rejected and derided, (ye) sit not withthem (who disbelieve and mock) until they engage in some otherconversation. Lo! in that case (if ye stayed) ye would be like unto them.Lo! Allah will gather hypocrites and disbelievers, all together, intohell;
4/141 Those who wait upon occasion in regard to you and, if avictory cometh unto you from Allah, say: Are we not with you? and if thedisbelievers meet with a success say: Had we not the mastery of you, anddid we not protect you from the believers? - Allah will judge between youat the Day of Resurrection, and Allah will not give the disbelievers anyway (of success) against the believers.
4/142 Lo! the hypocrites seek to beguile Allah, but it is He Whobeguileth them. When they stand up to worship they perform it languidly andto be seen of men, and are mindful of Allah but little;
4/143 Swaying between this (and that), (belonging) neither to thesenor to those. He whom Allah causeth to go astray, thou (O Muhammad) wiltnot find a way for him:
4/144 O ye who believe! Choose not disbelievers for (your) friendsin place of believers. Would ye give Allah a clear warrant against you?
4/145 Lo! the hypocrites (will be) in the lowest deep of the Fire,and thou wilt find no helper for them;
4/146 Save those who repent and amend and hold fast to Allah andmake their religion pure for Allah (only). Those are with the believers.And Allah will bestow on the believers an immense reward.
4/147 What concern hath Allah for your punishment if ye are thankful(for His mercies) and believe (in Him)? Allah was ever Responsive, Aware.
4/148 Allah loveth not the utterance of harsh speech save by one whohath been wronged. Allah is ever Hearer, Knower.
4/149 If ye do good openly or keep it secret, or forgive evil, lo!Allah is ever Forgiving, Powerful.
4/150 Lo! those who disbelieve in Allah and His messengers, and seekto make distinction between Allah and His messengers, and say: We believein some and disbelieve in others, and seek to choose a way in between;
4/151 Such are disbelievers in truth; and for disbelievers Weprepare a shameful doom.
4/152 But those who believe in Allah and His messengers and make nodistinction between any of them, unto them Allah will give their wages; andAllah was ever Forgiving, Merciful.
4/153 The people of the Scripture ask of thee that thou shouldstcause an (actual) Book to descend upon them from heaven. They asked agreater thing of Moses aforetime, for they said: Show us Allah plainly. Thestorm of lightning seized them for their wickedness. Then (even) afterthat) they chose the calf (for worship) after clear proofs (of Allah'sSovereignty) had come unto them. And We forgave them that! And We bestowedon Moses evident authority.
4/154 And We caused the Mount to tower above them at (the taking of)their covenant: and We bade them: Enter the gate, prostrate! and We bodethem: Transgress not the Sabbath! and We took from them a firm covenant.
4/155 Then because of their breaking of their covenant, and theirdisbelieving in the revelations of Allah, and their slaying of the prophetswrongfully, and their saying: Our hearts are hardened - Nay, but Allah seta seal upon them for their disbelief, so that they believe not save a few-
4/156 And because of their disbelief and of their speaking againstMary a tremendous calumny;
4/157 And because of their saying: We slew the Messiah, Jesus son ofMary, Allah's messenger - they slew him not nor crucified him, but itappeared so unto them; and lo! those who disagree concerning it are indoubt thereof; they have no knowledge thereof save pursuit of a conjecture;they slew him not for certain.
4/158 But Allah took him up unto Himself. Allah was ever Mighty,Wise.
4/159 There is not one of the People of the Scripture but willbelieve in him before his death, and on the Day of Resurrection he will bea witness against them -
4/160 Because of the wrongdoing of the Jews We forbade them goodthings which were (before) made lawful unto them, and because of their muchhindering from Allah's way,
4/161 And of their taking usury when they were forbidden it, and oftheir devouring people's wealth by false pretences, We have prepared forthose of them who disbelieve a painful doom.
4/162 But those of them who are firm in knowledge and the believersbelieve in that which is revealed unto thee, and that which was revealedbefore thee, especially the diligent in prayer and those who pay thepoor-due, the believers in Allah and the Last Day. Upon these We shallbestow immense reward.
4/163 Lo! We inspire thee as We inspired Noah and the prophets afterhim, as We inspired Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and the tribes,and Jesus and Job and Jonah and Aaron and Solomon, and as We imparted untoDavid the Psalms;
4/164 And messengers We have mentioned unto thee before andmessengers We have not mentioned unto thee; and Allah spake directly untoMoses;
4/165 Messengers of good cheer and of warning, in order that mankindmight have no argument against Allah after the messengers. Allah was everMighty, Wise.
4/166 But Allah (Himself) testifieth concerning that which He hathrevealeth unto thee; in His knowledge hath He revealed it; and the angelsalso testify. And Allah is sufficient Witness.
4/167 Lo! those who disbelieve and hinder (others) from the way ofAllah, they verily have wandered far astray.
4/168 Lo! those who disbelieve and deal in wrong, Allah will neverforgive them, neither will He guide them unto a road,
4/169 Except the road of hell, wherein they will abide for ever. Andthat is ever easy for Allah.
4/170 O mankind! The messenger hath come unto you with the Truthfrom your Lord. Therefor believe; (it is) better for you. But if yedisbelieve, still, lo! unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavensand the earth. Allah is ever Knower, Wise.
4/171 O People of the Scripture! Do not exaggerate in your religionnor utter aught concerning Allah save the truth. The Messiah, Jesus son ofMary, was only a messenger of Allah, and His word which He conveyed untoMary, and a spirit from Him. So believe in Allah and His messengers, andsay not "Three" - Cease! (it is) better for you! - Allah is only One Allah.Far is it removed from His Transcendent Majesty that He should have a son.His is all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth. And Allahis sufficient as Defender.
4/172 The Messiah will never scorn to be a slave unto Allah, norwill the favoured angels. Whoso scorneth His service and is proud, all suchwill He assemble unto Him;
4/173 Then, as for those who believed and did good works, unto themwill He pay their wages in full, adding unto them of His bounty; and as forthose who were scornful and proud, them will He punish with a painful doom.And they will not find for them, against Allah, any protecting friend orhelper.
4/174 O mankind! Now hath a proof from your Lord come unto you, andWe have sent down unto you a clear light;
4/175 As for those who believe in Allah, and hold fast unto Him,them He will cause to enter into His mercy and grace, and will guide themunto Him by a straight road.
4/176 They ask thee for a pronouncement. Say: Allah hath pronouncedfor you concerning distant kindred. If a man die childless and he have asister, hers is half the heritage, and he would have inherited from her hadshe died childless. And if there be two sisters, then theirs are two-thirdsof the heritage, and if they be brethren, men and women, unto the male isthe equivalent of the share of two females. Allah expoundeth unto you, sothat ye err not. Allah is Knower of all things.
