24/1 (Here is) a surah which We have revealed and enjoined, andwherein We have revealed plain tokens, that haply ye may take heed.
24/2 The adulterer and the adulteress, scourge ye each one of them(with) a hundred stripes. And let not pity for the twain withhold you fromobedience to Allah, if ye believe in Allah and the Last Day. And let aparty of believers witness their punishment.
24/3 The adulterer shall not marry save an adulteress or anidolatress, and the adulteress none shall marry save an adulterer or anidolater. All that is forbidden unto believers.
24/4 And those who accuse honourable women but bring not fourwitnesses, scourge them (with) eighty stripes and never (afterward) accepttheir testimony - They indeed are evil-doers -
24/5 Save those who afterward repent and make amends. (For such)lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/6 As for those who accuse their wives but have no witnessesexcept themselves; let the testimony of one of them be four testimonies,(swearing) by Allah that he is of those who speak the truth;
24/7 And yet a fifth, invoking the curse of Allah on him if he isof those who lie.
24/8 And it shall avert the punishment from her if she bear witnessbefore Allah four times that the thing he saith is indeed false,
24/9 And a fifth (time) that the wrath of Allah be upon her if hespeaketh truth.
24/10 And had it not been for the grace of Allah and His mercy untoyou, and that Allah is Clement, Wise, (ye had been undone).
24/11 Lo! they who spread the slander are a gang among you. Deem itnot a bad thing for you; nay, it is good for you. Unto every man of them(will be paid) that which he hath earned of the sin; and as for him amongthem who had the greater share therein, his will be an awful doom.
24/12 Why did not the believers, men and women, when ye heard it,think good of their own own folk, and say: It is a manifest untruth?
24/13 Why did they not produce four witnesses? Since they producenot witnesses, they verily are liars in the sight of Allah.
24/14 Had it not been for the grace of Allah and His mercy unto youin the world and the Hereafter an awful doom had overtaken you for thatwhereof ye murmured.
24/15 When ye welcomed it with your tongues, and uttered with yourmouths that whereof ye had no knowledge, ye counted it a trifle. In thesight of Allah it is very great.
24/16 Wherefor, when ye heard it, said ye not: It is not for us tospeak of this. Glory be to Thee (O Allah)! This is awful calumny.
24/17 Allah admonisheth you that ye repeat not the like thereofever, if ye are (in truth) believers.
24/18 And He expoundeth unto you the revelations. Allah is Knower,Wise.
24/19 Lo! those who love that slander should be spread concerningthose who believe, theirs will be a painful punishment in the world and theHereafter. Allah knoweth. Ye know not.
24/20 Had it not been for the grace of Allah and His mercy unto you,and that Allah is Clement, Merciful, (ye had been undone).
24/21 O ye who believe! Follow not the footsteps of the devil. Untowhomsoever followeth the footsteps of the devil, lo! he commandethfilthiness and wrong. Had it not been for the grace of Allah and His mercyunto you, not one of you would ever have grown pure. But Allah causeth whomHe will to grow. And Allah is Hearer, Knower.
24/22 And let not those who possess dignity and ease among you swearnot to give to the near of kin and to the needy, and to fugitives for thecause of Allah. Let them forgive and show indulgence. Yearn ye not thatAllah may forgive you? Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/23 Lo! as for those who traduce virtuous, believing women (whoare) careless, cursed are they in the world and the Hereafter. Theirs willbe an awful doom
24/24 On the day when their tongues and their hands and their feettestify against them as to what they used to do,
24/25 On that day Allah will pay them their just due, and they willknow that Allah, He is the Manifest Truth.
24/26 Vile women are for vile men, and vile men for vile women. Goodwomen are for good men, and good men for good women; such are innocent ofthat which people say: For them is pardon and a bountiful provision.
24/27 O ye who believe! Enter not houses other than your own withoutfirst announcing your presence and invoking peace upon the folk thereof.That is better for you, that ye may be heedful.
24/28 And if ye find no-one therein, still enter not untilpermission hath been given. And if it be said unto you: Go away again, thengo away, for it is purer for you. Allah knoweth what ye do.
24/29 (It is) no sin for you to enter uninhabited houses wherein iscomfort for you. Allah knoweth what ye proclaim and what ye hide.
24/30 Tell the believing men to lower their gaze and be modest. Thatis purer for them. Lo! Allah is aware of what they do.
24/31 And tell the believing women to lower their gaze and bemodest, and to display of their adornment only that which is apparent, andto draw their veils over their bosoms, and not to reveal their adornmentsave to their own husbands or fathers or husbands' fathers, or their sonsor their husbands' sons, or their brothers or their brothers' sons orsisters' sons, or their women, or their slaves, or male attendants who lackvigour, or children who know naught of women's nakedness. And let them notstamp their feet so as to reveal what they hide of their adornment. Andturn unto Allah together, O believers, in order that ye may succeed.
24/32 And marry such of you as are solitary and the pious of yourslaves and maid-servants. If they be poor, Allah will enrich them of Hisbounty. Allah is of ample means, Aware.
24/33 And let those who cannot find a match keep chaste till Allahgive them independence by His grace. And such of your slaves as seek awriting (of emancipation), write it for them if ye are aware of aught ofgood in them, and bestow upon them of the wealth of Allah which He hathbestowed upon you. Force not your slave-girls to whoredom that ye may seekenjoyment of the life of the world, if they would preserve their chastity.And if one force them, then (unto them), after their compulsion, lo! Allahwill be Forgiving, Merciful.
24/34 And verily We have sent down for you revelations that makeplain, and the example of those who passed away before you. An admonitionunto those who ward off (evil).
24/35 Allah is the Light of the heavens and the earth. Thesimilitude of His light is as a niche wherein is a lamp. The lamp is in aglass. The glass is as it were a shining star. (This lamp is) kindled froma blessed tree, an olive neither of the East nor of the West, whose oilwould almost glow forth (of itself) though no fire touched it. Light uponlight. Allah guideth unto His light whom He will. And Allah speaketh tomankind in allegories, for Allah is Knower of all things.
24/36 (This lamp is found) in houses which Allah hath allowed to beexalted and that His name shall be remembered therein. Therein do offerpraise to Him at morn and evening.
24/37 Men whom neither merchandise nor sale beguileth fromremembrance of Allah and constancy in prayer and paying to the poor theirdue; who fear a day when hearts and eyeballs will be overturned;
24/38 That Allah may reward them with the best of what they did, andincrease reward for them of His bounty. Allah giveth blessings withoutstint to whom He will.
24/39 As for those who disbelieve, their deeds are as a mirage in adesert. The thirsty one supposeth it to be water till he cometh unto it andfindeth it naught, and findeth, in the place thereof, Allah Who payeth himhis due; and Allah is swift at reckoning.
24/40 Or as darkness on a vast, abysmal sea. There covereth him awave, above which is a wave, above which is a cloud. Layer upon layer ofdarkness. When he holdeth out his hand he scarce can see it. And he forwhom Allah hath not appointed light, for him there is no light.
24/41 Hast thou not seen that Allah, He it is Whom all who are inthe heavens and the earth praise, and the birds in their flight? Of each Heknoweth verily the worship and the praise; and Allah is Aware of what theydo.
24/42 And unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens andthe earth, and unto Allah is the journeying.
24/43 Hast thou not seen how Allah wafteth the clouds, thengathereth them, then maketh them layers, and thou seest the rain come forthfrom between them; He sendeth down from the heaven mountains wherein ishail, and smiteth therewith whom He will, and averteth it from whom Hewill. The flashing of His lightning all but snatcheth away the sight.
24/44 Allah causeth the revolution of the day and the night. Lo!herein is indeed a lesson for those who see.
24/45 Allah hath created every animal of water. Of them is (a kind)that goeth upon its belly and (a kind) that goeth upon two legs and (akind) that goeth upon four. Allah createth what He will. Lo! Allah is Ableto do all things.
24/46 Verily We have sent down revelations and explained them. Allahguideth whom He will unto a straight path.
24/47 And they say: We believe in Allah and the messenger, and weobey; then after that a faction of them turn away. Such are not believers.
24/48 And when they appeal unto Allah and His messenger to judgebetween them, lo! a faction of them are averse;
24/49 But if right had been with them they would have come unto himwillingly.
24/50 Is there in their hearts a disease, or have they doubts, orfear they lest Allah and His messenger should wrong them in judgment? Nay,but such are evil-doers.
24/51 The saying of (all true) believers when they appeal unto Allahand His messenger to judge between them is only that they say: We hear andwe obey. And such are the successful.
24/52 He who obeyeth Allah and His messenger, and feareth Allah, andkeepeth duty (unto Him): such indeed are the victorious.
24/53 They swear by Allah solemnly that, if thou order them, theywill go forth. Say: Swear not; known obedience (is better). Lo! Allah isInformed of what ye do.
24/54 Say: Obey Allah and obey the messenger. But if ye turn away,then (it is) for him (to do) only that wherewith he hath been charged, andfor you (to do) only that wherewith ye have been charged. If ye obey him,ye will go aright. But the messenger hath no other charge than to convey(the message) plainly.
24/55 Allah hath promised such of you as believe and do good workthat He will surely make them to succeed (the present rulers) in the eartheven as He caused those who were before them to succeed (others); and thatHe will surely establish for them their religion which He hath approved forthem, and will give them in exchange safety after their fear. They serveMe. They ascribe no thing as partner unto Me. Those who disbelievehenceforth, they are the miscreants.
24/56 Establish worship and pay the poor-due and obey the messenger,that haply ye may find mercy.
24/57 Think not that the disbelievers can escape in the land. Firewill be their home - a hapless journey's end!
24/58 O ye who believe! Let your slaves, and those of you who havenot come to puberty, ask leave of you at three times (before they come intoyour presence): Before the prayer of dawn, and when ye lay aside yourraiment for the heat of noon, and after the prayer of night. Three times ofprivacy for you. It is no sin for them or for you at other times, when someof you go round attendant upon others (if they come into your presencewithout leave). Thus Allah maketh clear the revelations for you. Allah isKnower, Wise.
24/59 And when the children among you come to puberty then let themask leave even as those before them used to ask it. Thus Allah maketh clearHis revelations for you. Allah is Knower, Wise.
24/60 As for women past child-bearing, who have no hope of marriage,it is no sin for them if they discard their (outer) clothing in such a wayas not to show adornment. But to refrain is better for them. Allah isHearer, Knower.
24/61 No blame is there upon the blind nor any blame upon the lamenor any blame upon the sick nor on yourselves if ye eat from your houses,or the houses of your fathers, or the houses of your mothers, or the housesof your brothers, or the houses of your sisters, or the houses of yourfathers' brothers, or the houses of your fathers' sisters, or the houses ofyour mothers' brothers, or the houses of your mothers' sisters, or (fromthat) whereof ye hold the keys, or (from the house) of a friend. No sinshall it be for you whether ye eat together or apart. But when ye enterhouses, salute one another with a greeting from Allah, blessed and sweet.Thus Allah maketh clear His revelations for you, that haply ye mayunderstand.
24/62 They only are the true believers who believe in Allah and Hismessenger and, when they are with him on some common errand, go not awayuntil they have asked leave of him. Lo! those who ask leave of thee, thoseare they who believe in Allah and His messenger. So, if they ask thy leavefor some affair of theirs, give leave to whom thou wilt of them, and askfor them forgiveness of Allah. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
24/63 Make not the calling of the messenger among you as yourcalling one of another. Allah knoweth those of you who steal away, hidingthemselves. And let those who conspire to evade orders beware lest grief orpainful punishment befall them.
24/64 Lo! verily unto Allah belongeth whatsoever is in the heavensand the earth. He knoweth your condition. And (He knoweth) the Day whenthey are returned unto Him so that He may inform them of what they did.Allah is Knower of all things.
