13/1 Alif. Lam. Mim. Ra. These are verses of the Scripture. Thatwhich is revealed unto thee from thy Lord is the Truth, but most of mankindbelieve not.
13/2 Allah it is Who raised up the heavens without visiblesupports, then mounted the Throne, and compelled the sun and the moon to beof service, each runneth unto an appointed term; He ordereth the course; Hedetaileth the revelations, that haply ye may be certain of the meeting withyour Lord.
13/3 And He it is Who spread out the earth and placed therein firmhills and flowing streams, and of all fruits He placed therein two spouses(male and female). He covereth the night with the day. Lo! herein verilyare portents for people who take thought.
13/4 And in the Earth are neighbouring tracts, vineyards andploughed lands, and date-palms, like and unlike, which are watered with onewater. And we have made some of them to excel others in fruit. Lo! hereinverily are portents for people who have sense.
13/5 And if thou wonderest, then wondrous is their saying: When weare dust, are we then forsooth (to be raised) in a new creation? Such arethey who disbelieve in their Lord; such have carcans on their necks; suchare rightful owners of the Fire, they will abide therein.
13/6 And they bid thee hasten on the evil rather than the good,when exemplary punishments have indeed occurred before them. But lo! thyLord is rich in pardon for mankind despite their wrong, and lo! thy Lord isstrong in punishment.
13/7 Those who disbelieve say: If only some portent were sent downupon him from his Lord! Thou art a warner only, and for every folk aguide.
13/8 Allah knoweth that which every female beareth and that whichthe wombs absorb and that which they grow. And everything with Him ismeasured.
13/9 He is the Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, the Great,the High Exalted.
13/10 Alike of you is he who hideth the saying and he who noiseth itabroad, he who lurketh in the night and he who goeth freely in thedaytime.
13/11 For him are angels ranged before him and behind him, who guardhim by Allah's command. Lo! Allah changeth not the condition of a folkuntil they (first) change that which is in their hearts; and if Allahwilleth misfortune for a folk there is none that can repel it, nor havethey a defender beside Him.
13/12 He it is Who showeth you the lightning, a fear and a hope, andraiseth the heavy clouds.
13/13 The thunder hymneth His praise and (so do) the angels for aweof Him. He launcheth the thunderbolts and smiteth with them whom He willwhile they dispute (in doubt) concerning Allah, and He is mighty in wrath.
13/14 Unto Him is the real prayer. Those unto whom they pray besideAllah respond to them not at all, save as (is the response to) one whostretcheth forth his hands toward water (asking) that it may come unto hismouth, and it will never reach it. The prayer of disbelievers goeth (far)astray.
13/15 And unto Allah falleth prostrate whosoever is in the heavensand the earth, willingly or unwillingly, as do their shadows in the morningand the evening hours.
13/16 Say (O Muhammad): Who is Lord of the heavens and the earth?Say: Allah. Say: Take ye then (others) beside Him for protectors, which,even for themselves, have neither benefit nor hurt? Say: Is the blind manequal to the seer, or is darkness equal to light? Or assign they unto Allahpartners who created the like of His creation so that the creation (whichthey made and His creation) seemed alike to them? Say: Allah is the Creatorof all things, and He is the One, the Almighty.
13/17 He sendeth down water from the sky, so that valleys flowaccording to their measure, and the flood beareth (on its surface) swellingfoam - from that which they smelt in the fire in order to make ornamentsand tools riseth a foam like unto it - thus Allah coineth (the similitudeof) the true and the false. Then, as for the foam, it passeth away as scumupon the banks, while, as for that which is of use to mankind, it remainethin the earth. Thus Allah coineth the similitudes.
13/18 For those who answered Allah's call is bliss; and for thosewho answered not His call, if they had all that is in the earth, andtherewith the like thereof, they would proffer it as ransom. Such will havea woeful reckoning, and their habitation will be hell, a dire abode.
13/19 Is he who knoweth that what is revealed unto thee from thyLord is the truth like him who is blind? But only men of understandingheed;
13/20 Such as keep the pact of Allah, and break not the covenant;
13/21 Such as unite that which Allah hath commandeth should bejoined, and fear their Lord, and dread a woeful reckoning;
13/22 Such as persevere in seeking their Lord's Countenance and areregular in prayer and spend of that which We bestow upon them secretly andopenly, and overcome evil with good. Theirs will be the sequel of the(heavenly) Home,
13/23 Gardens of Eden which they enter, along with all who do rightof their fathers and their helpmeets and their seed. The angels enter untothem from every gate,
13/24 (Saying): Peace be unto you because ye persevered. Ah, passingsweet will be the sequel of the (heavenly) Home.
13/25 And those who break the covenant of Allah after ratifying it,and sever that which Allah hath commanded should be joined, and makemischief in the earth: theirs is the curse and theirs the ill abode.
13/26 Allah enlargeth livelihood for whom He will, and straiteneth(it for whom He will); and they rejoice in the life of the world, whereasthe life of the world is but brief comfort as compared with the Hereafter.
13/27 Those who disbelieve say: If only a portent were sent downupon him from his Lord! Say: Lo! Allah sendeth whom He will astray, andguideth unto Himself all who turn (unto Him),
13/28 Who have believed and whose hearts have rest in theremembrance of Allah. Verily in the remembrance of Allah do hearts findrest!
13/29 Those who believe and do right: Joy is for them, and bliss(their) journey's end.
13/30 Thus We send thee (O Muhammad) unto a nation, before whomother nations have passed away, that thou mayst recite unto them that whichWe have inspired in thee, while they are disbelievers in the Beneficent.Say: He is my Lord; there is no Allah save Him. In Him do I put my trust andunto Him is my recourse.
13/31 Had it been possible for a Lecture to cause the mountains tomove, or the earth to be torn asunder, or the dead to speak, (this Qur'anwould have done so). Nay, but Allah's is the whole command. Do not thosewho believe know that, had Allah willed, He could have guided all mankind?As for those who disbelieve, disaster ceaseth not to strike them because ofwhat they do, or it dwelleth near their home until the threat of Allah cometo pass. Lo! Allah faileth not to keep the tryst.
13/32 And verily messengers (of Allah) were mocked before thee, butlong I bore with those who disbelieved. At length I seized them, and how(awful) was My punishment!
13/33 Is He Who is aware of the deserts of every soul (as he who isaware of nothing)? Yet they ascribe unto Allah partners. Say: Name them. Isit that ye would inform Him of something which He knoweth not in the earth?Or is it but a way of speaking? Nay but their contrivance is made seemingfair for those who disbelieve and they are kept from the right road. Hewhom Allah sendeth astray, for him there is no guide.
13/34 For them is torment in the life of the world, and verily thedoom of the Hereafter is more painful, and they have no defender fromAllah.
13/35 A similitude of the Garden which is promised unto those whokeep their duty (to Allah): Underneath it rivers flow; its food iseverlasting, and its shade; this is the reward of those who keep theirduty, while the reward of disbelievers is the Fire.
13/36 Those unto whom We gave the Scripture rejoice in that which isrevealed unto thee. And of the clans there are who deny some of it. Say: Iam commanded only that I serve Allah and ascribe unto Him no partner. UntoHim I cry, and unto Him is my return.
13/37 Thus have We revealed it, a decisive utterance in Arabic; andif thou shouldst follow their desires after that which hath come unto theeof knowledge, then truly wouldst thou have from Allah no protecting friendnor defender.
13/38 And verily We sent messengers (to mankind) before thee, and Weappointed for them wives and offspring, and it was not (given) to anymessenger that he should bring a portent save by Allah's leave. Foreverything there is a time prescribed.
13/39 Allah effaceth what He will, and establisheth (what He will),and with Him is the source of ordinance.
13/40 Whether We let thee see something of that which We havepromised them, or make thee die (before its happening), thine is butconveyance (of the message). Ours the reckoning.
13/41 See they not how we aim to the land, reducing it of itsoutlying parts? (When) Allah doometh there is none that can postpone Hisdoom, and He is swift at reckoning.
13/42 Those who were before them plotted; but all plotting isAllah's. He knoweth that which each soul earneth. The disbelievers willcome to know for whom will be the sequel of the (heavenly) Home.
13/43 They who disbelieve say: Thou art no messenger (of Allah).Say: Allah, and whosoever hath knowledge of the Scripture, is sufficientwitness between me and you.
