61/1 All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earthglorifieth Allah, and He is the Mighty, the Wise.
61/2 O ye who believe! Why say ye that which ye do not?
61/3 It is most hateful in the sight of Allah that ye say thatwhich ye do not.
61/4 Lo! Allah loveth them who battle for His cause in ranks, as ifthey were a solid structure.
61/5 And (remember) when Moses said unto his people: O my people!Why persecute ye me, when ye well know that I am Allah's messenger untoyou? So when they went astray Allah sent their hearts astray. And Allahguideth not the evil-living folk.
61/6 And when Jesus son of Mary said: O Children of Israel! Lo! Iam the messenger of Allah unto you, confirming that which was (revealed)before me in the Torah, and bringing good tidings of a messenger who comethafter me, whose name is the Praised One. Yet when he hath come unto themwith clear proofs, they say: This is mere magic.
61/7 And who doeth greater wrong than he who inventeth a lieagainst Allah when he is summoned unto Al-Islam? And Allah guideth notwrongdoing folk.
61/8 Fain would they put out the light of Allah with their mouths,but Allah will perfect His light however much the disbelievers are averse.
61/9 He it is Who hath sent His messenger with the guidance and thereligion of truth, that He may make it conqueror of all religion howevermuch idolaters may be averse.
61/10 O ye who believe! Shall I show you a commerce that will saveyou from a painful doom?
61/11 Ye should believe in Allah and His messenger, and shouldstrive for the cause of Allah with your wealth and your lives. That isbetter for you, if ye did but know.
61/12 He will forgive you your sins and bring you into Gardensunderneath which rivers flow, and pleasant dwellings in Gardens of Eden.That is the supreme triumph.
61/13 And (He will give you) another (blessing) which ye love: helpfrom Allah and present victory. Give good tidings (O Muhammad) tobelievers.
61/14 O ye who believe! Be Allah's helpers, even as Jesus son ofMary said unto the disciples: Who are my helpers for Allah? They said: Weare Allah's helpers. And a party of the Children of Israel believed, whilea party disbelieved. Then We strengthened those who believed against theirfoe, and they became the uppermost.
