34/1 Praise be to Allah, unto Whom belongeth whatsoever is in theheavens and whatsoever is in the earth. His is the praise in the Hereafter,and He is the Wise, the Aware.
34/2 He knoweth that which goeth into the earth and that whichcometh forth from it, and that descendeth from the heaven and that whichascendeth into it. He is the Merciful, the Forgiving.
34/3 Those who disbelieve say: The Hour will never come unto us.Say: Nay, by my Lord, but it is coming unto you surely. (He is) the Knowerof the Unseen. Not an atom's weight, or less than that or greater, escapethHim in the heavens or in the earth, but it is in a clear Record,
34/4 That He may reward those who believe and do good works. Forthem is pardon and a rich provision.
34/5 But those who strive against Our revelations, challenging(Us), theirs will be a painful doom of wrath.
34/6 Those who have been given knowledge see that what is revealedunto thee from thy Lord is the truth and leadeth unto the path of theMighty, the Owner of Praise.
34/7 Those who disbelieve say: Shall we show you a man who willtell you (that) when ye have become dispersed in dust with most completedispersal still, even then, ye will be created anew?
34/8 Hath he invented a lie concerning Allah, or is there in him amadness? Nay, but those who disbelieve in the Hereafter are in torment andfar error.
34/9 Have they not observed what is before them and what is behindthem of the sky and the earth? If We will, We can make the earth swallowthem, or cause obliteration from the sky to fall on them.  Lo! hereinsurely is a portent for every slave who turneth (to Allah) repentant.
34/10 And assuredly We gave David grace from Us, (saying): O yehills and birds, echo his psalms of praise! And We made the iron suppleunto him,
34/11 Saying: Make thou long coats of mail and measure the links(thereof). And do ye right. Lo! I am Seer of what ye do.
34/12 And unto Solomon (We gave) the wind, whereof the morningcourse was a month's journey and the evening course a month's journey, andWe caused the fount of copper to gush forth for him, and (We gave him)certain of the jinn who worked before him by permission of his Lord. Andsuch of them as deviated from Our command, them We caused to taste thepunishment of flaming Fire.
34/13 They made for him what he willed: synagogues and statues,basins like wells and boilers built into the ground. Give thanks, O Houseof David! Few of My bondmen are thankful.
34/14 And when We decreed death for him, nothing showed his death tothem save a creeping creature of the earth which gnawed away his staff. Andwhen he fell the jinn saw clearly how, if they had known the Unseen, theywould not have continued in despised toil.
34/15 There was indeed a sign for Sheba in their dwelling-place: Twogardens on the right hand and the left (as who should say): Eat of theprovision of your Lord and render thanks to Him. A fair land and anindulgent Lord!
34/16 But they were froward, so We sent on them the flood of 'Iram,and in exchange for their two gardens gave them two gardens bearing bitterfruit, the tamarisk and here and there a lote-tree.
34/17 This We awarded them because of their ingratitude. Punish Weever any save the ingrates?
34/18 And We set, between them and the towns which We had blessed,towns easy to be seen, and We made the stage between them easy, (saying):Travel in them safely both by night and day.
34/19 But they said: Our Lord! Make the stage between our journeyslonger. And they wronged themselves, therefore We made them bywords (in theland) and scattered them abroad, a total scattering. Lo! herein verily areportents for each steadfast, grateful (heart).
34/20 And Satan indeed found his calculation true concerning them,for they follow him, all save a group of true believers.
34/21 And he had no warrant whatsoever against them, save that Wewould know him who believeth in the Hereafter from him who is in doubtthereof; and thy Lord (O Muhammad) taketh note of all things.
34/22 Say (O Muhammad): Call upon those whom ye set up beside Allah!They possess not an atom's weight either in the heavens or in the earth,nor have they any share in either, nor hath He an auxiliary among them.
34/23 No intercession availeth with Him save for him whom Hepermitteth. Yet, when fear is banished from their hearts, they say: Whatwas it that your Lord said? They say: The Truth. And He is the Sublime, theGreat.
34/24 Say: Who giveth you provision from the sky and the earth? Say:Allah, Lo! we or you assuredly are rightly guided or in error manifest.
34/25 Say: Ye will not be asked of what we committed, nor shall webe asked of what ye do.
34/26 Say: Our Lord will bring us all together, then He will judgebetween us with truth. He is the All-knowing Judge.
34/27 Say: Show me those whom ye have joined unto Him as partners.Nay (ye dare not)! For He is Allah, the Mighty, the Wise.
34/28 And We have not sent thee (O Muhammad) save as a bringer ofgood tidings and a warner unto all mankind; but most of mankind know not.
34/29 And they say: When is this promise (to be fulfilled) if ye aretruthful?
34/30 Say (O Muhammad): Yours is the promise of a Day which yecannot postpone nor hasten by an hour.
34/31 And those who disbelieve say: We believe not in this Qur'annor in that which was before it; but oh, if thou couldst see, when thewrong-doers are brought up before their Lord, how they cast the blame oneto another; how those who were despised (in the earth) say unto those whowere proud: But for you, we should have been believers.
34/32 Those who were proud say unto those who were despised: Did wedrive you away from the guidance after it had come unto you? Nay, but yewere guilty.
34/33 Those who were despised say unto those who were proud: Nay but(it was your) scheming night and day, when ye commanded us to disbelieve inAllah and set up rivals unto Him. And they are filled with remorse whenthey behold the doom; and We place carcans on the necks of those whodisbelieved. Are they requited aught save what they used to do?
34/34 And We sent not unto any township a warner, but its pamperedones declared: Lo! we are disbelievers in that wherewith ye have beensent.
34/35 And they say: We are more (than you) in wealth and children.We are not the punished!
34/36 Say (O Muhammad): Lo! my Lord enlargeth the provision for whomHe will and narroweth it (for whom He will). But most of mankind know not.
34/37 And it is not your wealth nor your children that will bringyou near unto Us, but he who believeth and doeth good (he draweth near). Asfor such, theirs will be twofold reward for what they did and they willdwell secure in lofty halls.
34/38 And as for those who strive against Our revelations,challenging, they will be brought to the doom.
34/39 Say: Lo! my Lord enlargeth the provision for whom He will ofHis bondmen, and narroweth (it) for him. And whatsoever ye spend (for good)He replaceth it. And He is the Best of Providers.
34/40 And on the day when He will gather them all together, He willsay unto the angels: Did these worship you?
34/41 They will say: Be Thou Glorified. Thou (alone) art ourGuardian, not them! Nay, but they worshipped the jinn; most of them werebelievers in them.
34/42 That day ye will possess no use nor hurt one for another. AndWe shall say unto those who did wrong: Taste the doom of the Fire which yeused to deny.
34/43 And if Our revelations are recited unto them in plain terms,they say: This is naught else than a man who would turn you away from whatyour fathers used to worship; and they say: This is naught else than aninvented lie. Those who disbelieve say of the truth when it reacheth them:This is naught else than mere magic.
34/44 And We have given them no scriptures which they study, norsent We unto them, before thee, any warner.
34/45 Those before them denied, and these have not attained a titheof that which We bestowed on them (of old); yet they denied My messengers.How intense then was My abhorrence (of them)!
34/46 Say (unto them, O Muhammad): I exhort you unto one thing only:that ye awake, for Allah's sake, by twos and singly, and then reflect:There is no madness in your comrade. He is naught else than a warner untoyou in face of a terrific doom.
34/47 Say: Whatever reward I might have asked of you is yours. Myreward is the affair of Allah only. He is Witness over all things.
34/48 Say: Lo! my Lord hurleth the truth. (He is) the Knower ofThings Hidden.
34/49 Say: The Truth hath come, and falsehood showeth not its faceand will not return.
34/50 Say: If I err, I err only to my own loss, and if I am rightlyguided it is because of that which my Lord hath revealed unto me. Lo! He isHearer, Nigh.
34/51 Couldst thou but see when they are terrified with no escape,and are seized from near at hand,
34/52 And say: We (now) believe therein. But how can they reach(faith) from afar off,
34/53 When they disbelieved in it of yore. They aim at the unseenfrom afar off.
34/54 And a gulf is set between them and that which they desire, aswas done for people of their kind of old. Lo! they were in hopeless doubt.
