42/1 Ha. Mim.
42/2 A'in. Sin. Qaf.
42/3 Thus Allah the Mighty, the Knower inspireth thee (Muhammad) as(He inspired) those before thee.
42/4 Unto Him belongeth all that is in the heavens and all that isin the earth, and He is the Sublime, the Tremendous.
42/5 Almost might the heavens above be rent asunder while theangels hymn the praise of their Lord and ask forgiveness for those on theearth. Lo! Allah, He is the Forgiver, the Merciful.
42/6 And as for those who choose protecting friends beside Him,Allah is Warden over them, and thou art in no wise a guardian over them.
42/7 And thus We have inspired in thee a Lecture in Arabic, thatthou mayst warn the mother-town and those around it, and mayst warn of aday of assembling whereof there is no doubt. A host will be in the Garden,and a host of them in the Flame.
42/8 Had Allah willed, He could have made them one community, butAllah bringeth whom He will into His mercy. And the wrong-doers have nofriend nor helper.
42/9 Or have they chosen protecting friends besides Him? But Allah,He (alone) is the Protecting Friend. He quickeneth the dead, and He is Ableto do all things.
42/10 And in whatsoever ye differ, the verdict therein belongeth toAllah. Such is my Lord, in Whom I put my trust, and unto Whom I turn.
42/11 The Creator of the heavens and the earth. He hath made for youpairs of yourselves, and of the cattle also pairs, whereby He multipliethyou. Naught is as His likeness; and He is the Hearer, the Seer.
42/12 His are the keys of the heavens and the earth. He enlargethprovidence for whom He will and straiteneth (it for whom He will). Lo! Heis Knower of all things.
42/13 He hath ordained for you that religion which He commended untoNoah, and that which We inspire in thee (Muhammad), and that which Wecommended unto Abraham and Moses and Jesus, saying: Establish the religion,and be not divided therein. Dreadful for the idolaters is that unto whichthou callest them. Allah chooseth for Himself whom He will, and guidethunto Himself him who turneth (toward Him).
42/14 And they were not divided until after the knowledge came untothem, through rivalry among themselves; and had it not been for a Word thathad already gone forth from thy Lord for an appointed term, it surely hadbeen judged between them. And those who were made to inherit the Scriptureafter them are verily in hopeless doubt concerning it.
42/15 Unto this, then, summon (O Muhammad). And be thou upright asthou art commanded, and follow not their lusts, but say: I believe inwhatever scripture Allah hath sent down, and I am commanded to be justamong you. Allah is our Lord and your Lord. Unto us our works and unto youyour works; no argument between us and you. Allah will bring us together,and unto Him is the journeying.
42/16 And those who argue concerning Allah after He hath beenacknowledged, their argument hath no weight with their Lord, and wrath isupon them and theirs will be an awful doom.
42/17 Allah it is Who hath revealed the Scripture with truth, andthe Balance. How canst thou know? It may be that the Hour is nigh.
42/18 Those who believe not therein seek to hasten it, while thosewho believe are fearful of it and know that it is the Truth. Are not theywho dispute, in doubt concerning the Hour, far astray?
42/19 Allah is gracious unto His slaves. He provideth for whom Hewill. And He is the Strong, the Mighty.
42/20 Whoso desireth the harvest of the Hereafter, We give himincrease in its harvest. And whoso desireth the harvest of the world, Wegive him thereof, and he hath no portion in the Hereafter.
42/21 Or have they partners (of Allah) who have made lawful for themin religion that which Allah allowed not? And but for a decisive word (goneforth already), it would have been judged between them. Lo! for wrong-doersis a painful doom.
42/22 Thou seest the wrong-doers fearful of that which they haveearned, and it will surely befall them, while those who believe and do goodworks (will be) in flowering meadows of the Gardens, having what they wishfrom their Lord. This is the great preferment.
42/23 This it is which Allah announceth unto His bondmen who believeand do good works. Say (O Muhammad, unto mankind): I ask of you no feetherefor, save lovingkindness among kinsfolk. And whoso scoreth a good deedWe add unto its good for him. Lo! Allah is Forgiving, Responsive.
42/24 Or say they: He hath invented a lie concerning Allah? If Allahwilled, He could have sealed thy heart (against them). And Allah will wipeout the lie and will vindicate the truth by His words. Lo! He is Aware ofwhat is hidden in the breasts (of men).
42/25 And He it is Who accepteth repentance from His bondmen, andpardoneth the evil deeds, and knoweth what ye do,
42/26 And accepteth those who do good works, and giveth increaseunto them of His bounty. And as for disbelievers, theirs will be an awfuldoom.
42/27 And if Allah were to enlarge the provision for His slaves theywould surely rebel in the earth, but He sendeth down by measure as Hewilleth. Lo! He is Informed, a Seer of His bondmen.
42/28 And He it is Who sendeth down the saving rain after they havedespaired, and spreadeth out His mercy. He is the Protecting Friend, thePraiseworthy.
42/29 And of His portents is the creation of the heaven and theearth, and of whatever beasts He hath dispersed therein. And He is Able togather them when He will.
42/30 Whatever of misfortune striketh you, it is what your righthands have earned. And He forgiveth much.
42/31 Ye cannot escape in the earth, for beside Allah ye have noprotecting friend nor any helper.
42/32 And of His portents are the ships, like banners on the sea;
42/33 If He will He calmeth the wind so that they keep still uponits surface - Lo! herein verily are signs for every steadfast grateful(heart). -
42/34 Or He causeth them to perish on account of that which theyhave earned - And He forgiveth much -
42/35 And that those who argue concerning Our revelations may knowthey have no refuge.
42/36 Now whatever ye have been given is but a passing comfort forthe life of the world, and that which Allah hath is better and more lastingfor those who believe and put their trust in their Lord,
42/37 And those who shun the worst of sins and indecencies and, whenthey are wroth, forgive,
42/38 And those who answer the call of their Lord and establishworship, and whose affairs are a matter of counsel, and who spend of whatWe have bestowed on them,
42/39 And those who, when great wrong is done to them, defendthemselves,
42/40 The guerdon of an ill-deed is an ill the like thereof. Butwhosoever pardoneth and amendeth, his wage is the affair of Allah. Lo! Heloveth not wrong-doers.
42/41 And whoso defendeth himself after he hath suffered wrong - forsuch, there is no way (of blame) against them.
42/42 The way (of blame) is only against those who oppress mankind,and wrongfully rebel in the earth. For such there is a painful doom.
42/43 And verily whoso is patient and forgiveth - lo! that, verily,is (of) the steadfast heart of things.
42/44 He whom Allah sendeth astray, for him there is no protectingfriend after Him. And thou (Muhammad) wilt see the evil-doers when they seethe doom, (how) they say: Is there any way of return?
42/45 And thou wilt see them exposed to (the Fire), made humble bydisgrace, and looking with veiled eyes. And those who believe will say: Lo!the (eternal) losers are they who lose themselves and their housefolk onthe Day of Resurrection. Lo! are not the wrong-doers in perpetual torment?
42/46 And they will have no protecting friends to help them insteadof Allah. He whom Allah sendeth astray, for him there is no road.
42/47 Answer the call of your Lord before there cometh unto you fromAllah a Day which there is no averting. Ye have no refuge on that Day, norhave a ye any (power of) refusal.
42/48 But if they are averse, We have not sent thee as a warder overthem. Thine is only to convey (the message). And lo! when We cause man totaste of mercy from Us he exulteth therefor. And if some evil striketh thembecause of that which their own hands have sent before, then lo! man is aningrate.
42/49 Unto Allah belongeth the Sovereignty of the heavens and theearth. He createth what He will. He bestoweth female (offspring) upon whomHe will, and bestoweth male (offspring) upon whom He will;
42/50 Or He mingleth them, males and females, and He maketh barrenwhom He will. Lo! He is Knower, Powerful.
42/51 And it was not (vouchsafed) to any mortal that Allah shouldspeak to him unless (it be) by revelation or from behind a veil, or (that)He sendeth a messenger to reveal what He will by His leave. Lo! He isExalted, Wise.
42/52 And thus have We inspired in thee (Muhammad) a Spirit of Ourcommand. Thou knewest not what the Scripture was, nor what the Faith. ButWe have made it a light whereby We guide whom We will of Our bondmen. Andlo! thou verily dost guide unto a right path,
42/53 The path of Allah, unto Whom belongeth whatsoever is in theheavens and whatsoever is in the earth. Do not all things reach Allah atlast?
