64/1 All that is in the heavens and all that is in the earthglorifieth Allah; unto Him belongeth Sovereignty and unto Him belongethpraise, and He is Able to do all things.
64/2 He it is Who created you, but one of you is a disbeliever andone of you is a believer, and Allah is Seer of what ye do.
64/3 He created the heavens and the earth with truth, and He shapedyou and made good your shapes, and unto Him is the journeying.
64/4 He knoweth all that is in the heavens and the earth, and Heknoweth what ye conceal and what ye publish. And Allah is Aware of what isin the breasts (of men).
64/5 Hath not the story reached you of those who disbelieved of oldand so did taste the ill-effects of their conduct, and theirs will be apainful doom.
64/6 That was because their messengers (from Allah) kept comingunto them with clear proofs (of Allah's Sovereignty), but they said: Shallmere mortals guide us? So they disbelieved and turned away, and Allah wasindependent (of them). Allah is Absolute, Owner of Praise.
64/7 Those who disbelieve assert that they will not be raisedagain. Say (unto them, O Muhammad): Yea, verily, by my Lord! ye will beraised again and then ye will be informed of what ye did; and that is easyfor Allah.
64/8 So believe in Allah and His messenger and the light which Wehave revealed. And Allah is Informed of what ye do.
64/9 The day when He shall gather you unto the Day of Assembling,that will be a day of mutual disillusion. And whoso believeth in Allah anddoeth right, He will remit from him his evil deeds and will bring him untoGardens underneath which rivers flow, therein to abide for ever. That isthe supreme triumph.
64/10 But those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, such areowners of the Fire; they will abide therein - a hapless journey's end!
64/11 No calamity befalleth save by Allah's leave. And whosoeverbelieveth in Allah, He guideth his heart. And Allah is Knower of allthings.
64/12 Obey Allah and obey His messenger; but if ye turn away, thenthe duty of Our messenger is only to convey (the message) plainly.
64/13 Allah! There is no Allah save Him. In Allah, therefore, letbelievers put their trust.
64/14 O ye who believe! Lo! among your wives and your children thereare enemies for you, therefor beware of them. And if ye efface and overlookand forgive, then lo! Allah is Forgiving, Merciful.
64/15 Your wealth and your children are only a temptation, whereasAllah! with Him is an immense reward.
64/16 So keep your duty to Allah as best ye can, and listen, andobey, and spend; that is better for your souls. And whoso is saved from hisown greed, such are the successful.
64/17 If ye lend unto Allah a goodly loan, He will double it for youand will forgive you, for Allah is Responsive, Clement,
64/18 Knower of the Invisible and the Visible, the Mighty, theWise.
