12/1 Alif. Lam. Ra. These are verse of the Scripture that makethplain.
12/2 Lo! We have revealed it, a Lecture in Arabic, that ye mayunderstand.
12/3 We narrate unto thee (Muhammad) the best of narratives in thatWe have inspired in thee this Qur'an, though aforetime thou wast of theheedless.
12/4 When Joseph said unto his father: O my father! Lo! I saw in adream eleven planets and the sun and the moon, I saw them prostratingthemselves unto me.
12/5 He said: O my dear son! Tell not thy brethren of thy vision,lest they plot a plot against thee. Lo! Satan is for man an open foe.
12/6 Thus thy Lord will prefer thee and will teach thee theinterpretation of events, and will perfect His grace upon thee and upon thefamily of Jacob as He perfected it upon thy forefathers, Abraham and Isaac.Lo! thy Lord is Knower, Wise.
12/7 Verily in Joseph and his brethren are signs (of Allah'sSovereignty) for the inquiring.
12/8 When they said: Verily Joseph and his brother are dearer toour father than we are, many though we be. Lo! our father is in plainaberration.
12/9 (One said): Kill Joseph or cast him to some (other) land, sothat your father's favour may be all for you, and (that) ye may afterwardbe righteous folk.
12/10 One among them said: Kill not Joseph but, if ye must be doing,fling him into the depth of the pit; some caravan will find him.
12/11 They said: O our father! Why wilt thou not trust us withJoseph, when lo! we are good friends to him?
12/12 Send him with us to-morrow that he may enjoy himself and play.And lo! we shall take good care of him.
12/13 He said: Lo! in truth it saddens me that ye should take himwith you, and I fear less the wolf devour him while ye are heedless ofhim.
12/14 They said: If the wolf should devour him when we are (sostrong) a band, then surely we should have already perished.
12/15 Then, when they led him off, and were of one mind that theyshould place him in the depth of the pit, We inspired in him: Thou wilttell them of this deed of theirs when they know (thee) not.
12/16 And they came weeping to their father in the evening.
12/17 Saying: O our father! We went racing one with another, andleft Joseph by our things, and the wolf devoured him, and thou believestnot our saying even when we speak the truth.
12/18 And they came with false blood on his shirt. He said: Nay, butyour minds have beguiled you into something. (My course is) comelypatience. And Allah it is Whose help is to be sought in that (predicament)which ye describe.
12/19 And there came a caravan, and they sent their waterdrawer. Helet down his pail (into the pit). He said: Good luck! Here is a youth. Andthey hid him as a treasure, and Allah was Aware of what they did.
12/20 And they sold him for a low price, a number of silver coins;and they attached no value to him.
12/21 And he of Egypt who purchased him said unto his wife: Receivehim honourably. Perchance he may prove useful to us or we may adopt him asa son. Thus we established Joseph in the land that We might teach him theinterpretation of events. And Allah was predominant in His career, but mostof mankind know not.
12/22 And And when he reached his prime We gave him wisdom andknowledge. Thus We reward the good.
12/23 And she, in whose house he was, asked of him an evil act. Shebolted the doors and said: Come! He said: I seek refuge in Allah! Lo! he ismy lord, who hath treated me honourably. Lo! wrong-doers never prosper.
12/24 She verily desired him, and he would have desired her if ithad not been that he saw the argument of his Lord. Thus it was, that Wemight ward off from him evil and lewdness. Lo! he was of Our chosenslaves.
12/25 And they raced with one another to the door, and she tore hisshirt from behind, and they met her lord and master at the door. She said:What shall be his reward, who wisheth evil to thy folk, save prison or apainful doom?
12/26 (Joseph) said: She it was who asked of me an evil act. And awitness of her own folk testified: If his shirt is torn from before, thenshe speaketh truth and he is of the liars.
12/27 And if his shirt is torn from behind, then she hath lied andhe is of the truthful.
12/28 So when he saw his shirt torn from behind, he said: Lo! thisis of the guile of you women. Lo! the guile of you is very great.
12/29 O Joseph! Turn away from this, and thou, (O woman), askforgiveness for thy sin. Lo! thou art of the faulty.
12/30 And women in the city said: The ruler's wife is asking of herslave-boy an ill-deed. Indeed he has smitten her to the heart with love. Webehold her in plain aberration.
12/31 And when she heard of their sly talk, she sent to them andprepared for them a cushioned couch (to lie on at the feast) and gave toevery one of them a knife and said (to Joseph): Come out unto them! Andwhen they saw him they exalted him and cut their hands, exclaiming: AllahBlameless! This is no a human being. This is not other than some graciousangel.
12/32 She said: This is he on whose account ye blamed me. I asked ofhim an evil act, but he proved continent, but if he do not my behest heverily shall be imprisoned, and verily shall be of those brought low.
12/33 He said: O my Lord! Prison is more dear than that unto whichthey urge me, and if Thou fend not off their wiles from me I shall inclineunto them and become of the foolish.
12/34 So his Lord heard his prayer and fended off their wiles fromhim. Lo! He is Hearer, Knower.
12/35 And it seemed good to them (the men-folk) after they had seenthe signs (of his innocence) to imprison him for a time.
12/36 And two young men went to prison with him. One of them said: Idreamed that I was pressing wine. The other said: I dreamed that I wascarrying upon my head bread whereof the birds were eating. Announce unto usthe interpretation, for we see thee of those good (at interpretation).
12/37 He said: The food which ye are given (daily) shall not comeunto you but I shall tell you the interpretation ere it cometh unto you.This is of that which my Lord hath taught me. Lo! I have forsaken thereligion of folk who believe not in Allah and are disbelievers in theHereafter.
12/38 And I have followed the religion of my fathers, Abraham andIsaac and Jacob. It never was for us to attribute aught as partner toAllah. This is of the bounty of Allah unto us (the seed of Abraham) andunto mankind; but most men give not thanks.
12/39 O my fellow-prisoners! Are divers lords better, or Allah theOne, Almighty?
12/40 Those whom ye worship beside Him are but names which ye havenamed, ye and your fathers. Allah hath revealed no sanction for them. Thedecision rests with Allah only, Who hath commanded you that ye worship nonesave Him. This is the right religion, but most men know not.
12/41 O my two fellow-prisoners! As for one of you, he will pour outwine for his lord to drink; and as for the other, he will be crucified sothat the birds will eat from his head. Thus is the case judged concerningwhich ye did inquire.
12/42 And he said unto him of the twain who he knew would bereleased: Mention me in the presence of thy lord. But Satan caused him toforget to mention it to his lord, so he (Joseph) stayed in prison for someyears.
12/43 And the king said: Lo! I saw in a dream seven fat kine whichseven lean were eating, and seven green ears of corn and other (seven) dry.O notables! Expound for me my vision, if ye can interpret dreams.
12/44 They answered: Jumbled dreams! And we are not knowing in theinterpretation of dreams.
12/45 And he of the two who was released, and (now) at lengthremembered, said: I am going to announce unto you the interpretation,therefore send me forth.
12/46 (And when he came to Joseph in the prison, he exclaimed):Joseph! O thou truthful one! Expound for us the seven fat kine which sevenlean were eating and the seven green ears of corn and other (seven) dry,that I may return unto the people, so that they may know.
12/47 He said: Ye shall sow seven years as usual, but that which yereap, leave it in the ear, all save a little which ye eat.
12/48 Then after that will come seven hard years which will devourall that ye have prepared for them, save a little of that which ye havestored.
12/49 Then, after that, will come a year when the people will haveplenteous crops and when they will press (wine and oil).
12/50 And the king said: Bring him unto me. And when the messengercame unto him, he (Joseph) said: Return unto thy lord and ask him what wasthe case of the women who cut their hands. Lo! my Lord knoweth theirguile.
12/51 He (the king) (then sent for those women and) said: Whathappened when ye asked an evil act of Joseph? They answered: AllahBlameless! We know no evil of him. Said the wife of the ruler: Now thetruth is out. I asked of him an evil act, and he is surely of thetruthful.
12/52 (Then Joseph said: I asked for) this, that he (my lord) mayknow that I betrayed him not in secret, and that surely Allah guideth notthe snare of the betrayers.
12/53 I do not exculpate myself. Lo! the (human) soul enjoineth untoevil, save that whereon my Lord hath mercy. Lo! my Lord is Forgiving,Merciful.
12/54 And the king said: Bring him unto me that I may attach him tomy person. And when he had talked with him he said: Lo! thou art to-day inour presence established and trusted.
12/55 He said: Set me over the storehouses of the land. Lo! I am askilled custodian.
12/56 Thus gave We power to Joseph in the land. He was the owner ofit where he pleased. We reach with Our mercy whom We will. We lose not thereward of the good.
12/57 And the reward of the Hereafter is better, for those whobelieve and ward off (evil).
12/58 And Joseph's brethren came and presented themselves beforehim, and he knew them but they knew him not.
12/59 And when he provided them with their provision he said: Bringunto me a brother of yours from your father. See ye not that I fill up themeasure and I am the best of hosts?
12/60 And if ye bring him not unto me, then there shall be nomeasure for you with me, nor shall ye draw near.
12/61 They said: We will try to win him from his father: that wewill surely do.
12/62 He said unto his young men: Place their merchandise in theirsaddlebags, so that they may know it when they go back to their folk, andso will come again.
12/63 So when they went back to their father they said: O ourfather! The measure is denied us, so send with us our brother that we mayobtain the measure, surely we will guard him well.
12/64 He said: Can I entrust him to you save as I entrusted hisbrother to you aforetime? Allah is better at guarding, and He is the MostMerciful of those who show mercy.
12/65 And when they opened their belongings they discovered thattheir merchandise had been returned to them. They said: O our father! What(more) can we ask? Here is our merchandise returned to us. We shall getprovision for our folk and guard our brother, and we shall have the extrameasure of a camel (load). This (that we bring now) is a light measure.
12/66 He said: I will not send him with you till ye give me anundertaking in the name of Allah that ye will bring him back to me, unlessye are surrounded. And when they gave him their undertaking he said: Allahis the Warden over what we say.
12/67 And he said: O my sons! Go not in by one gate; go in bydifferent gates. I can naught avail you as against Allah. Lo! the decisionrests with Allah only. In Him do I put my trust, and in Him let all thetrusting put their trust.
12/68 And when they entered in the manner which their father hadenjoined, it would have naught availed them as against Allah; it was but aneed of Jacob's soul which he thus satisfied; and lo! he was a lord ofknowledge because We had taught him; but most of mankind know not.
12/69 And when they went in before Joseph, he took his brother untohim, saying: Lo! I, even I, am thy brother, therefore sorrow not for whatthey did.
12/70 And when he provided them with their provision, he put thedrinking-cup in his brother's saddlebag, and then a crier cried: Ocamel-riders! Lo! ye are surely thieves!
12/71 They cried, coming toward them: What is it ye have lost?
12/72 They said: We have lost the king's cup, and he who bringeth itshall have a camel-load, and I (said Joseph) am answerable for it.
12/73 They said: By Allah, well ye know we came not to do evil inthe land, and are no thieves.
12/74 They said: And what shall be the penalty for it, if ye proveliars?
12/75 They said: The penalty for it! He in whose bag (the cup) isfound, he is the penalty for it. Thus we requite wrong-doers.
12/76 Then he (Joseph) began the search with their bags before hisbrother's bag, then he produced it from his brother's bag. Thus did Wecontrive for Joseph. He could not have taken his brother according to theking's law unless Allah willed. We raise by grades (of mercy) whom We will,and over every lord of knowledge there is one more knowing.
12/77 They said: If he stealeth, a brother of his stole before. ButJoseph kept it secret in his soul and revealed it not unto them. He said(within himself): Ye are in worse case, and Allah knoweth best (the truthof) that which ye allege.
12/78 They said: O ruler of the land! Lo! he hath a very agedfather, so take one of us instead of him. Lo! we behold thee of those whodo kindness.
12/79 He said: Allah forbid that we should seize save him with whomwe found our property; then truly we should be wrong-doers.
12/80 So, When they despaired of (moving) him, they conferredtogether apart. The eldest of them said: Know ye not how your father tookan undertaking from you in Allah's name and how ye failed in the case ofJoseph aforetime? Therefore I shall not go forth from the land until myfather giveth leave or Allah judgeth for me. He is the Best of Judges.
12/81 Return unto your father and say: O our father! Lo! thy sonhath stolen. We testify only to that which we know; we are not guardians ofthe Unseen.
12/82 Ask the township where we were, and the caravan with which wetravelled hither. Lo! we speak the truth.
12/83 (And when they came unto their father and had spoken thus tohim) he said: Nay, but your minds have beguiled you into something. (Mycourse is) comely patience! It may be that Allah will bring them all untome. Lo! He, only He, is the Knower, the Wise.
12/84 And he turned away from them and said: Alas, my grief forJoseph! And his eyes were whitened with the sorrow that he wassuppressing.
12/85 They said: By Allah, thou wilt never cease remembering Josephtill thy health is ruined or thou art of those who perish!
12/86 He said: I expose my distress and anguish only unto Allah, andI know from Allah that which ye know not.
12/87 Go, O my sons, and ascertain concerning Joseph and hisbrother, and despair not of the Spirit of Allah. Lo! none despaireth of theSpirit of Allah save disbelieving folk.
12/88 And when they came (again) before him (Joseph) they said: Oruler! Misfortune hath touched us and our folk, and we bring but poormerchandise, so fill for us the measure and be charitable unto us. Lo!Allah will requite the charitable,
12/89 He said: Know ye what ye did unto Joseph and his brother inyour ignorance?
12/90 They said: Is it indeed thou who art Joseph? He said: I amJoseph and this is my brother. Allah hath shown us favour. Lo! he whowardeth off (evil) and endureth (findeth favour); for lo! Allah loseth notthe wages of the kindly.
12/91 They said: By Allah, verily Allah hath preferred thee aboveus, and we were indeed sinful.
12/92 He said: Have no fear this day! May Allah forgive you, and Heis the Most Merciful of those who show mercy.
12/93 Go with this shirt of mine and lay it on my father's face, hewill become (again) a seer; and come to me with all your folk.
12/94 When the caravan departed their father had said: Truly I amconscious of the breath of Joseph, though ye call me dotard.
12/95 (Those around him) said: By Allah, lo! thou art in thine oldaberration.
12/96 Then, when the bearer of glad tidings came, he laid it on hisface and he became a seer once more. He said: Said I not unto you that Iknow from Allah that which ye know not?
12/97 They said: O our father! Ask forgiveness of our sins for us,for lo! we were sinful.
12/98 He said: I shall ask forgiveness for you of my Lord. Lo! He isthe Forgiving, the Merciful.
12/99 And when they came in before Joseph, he took his parents untohim, and said: Come into Egypt safe, if Allah will!
12/100 And he placed his parents on the dais and they fell downbefore him prostrate, and he said: O my father! This is the interpretationof my dream of old. My Lord hath made it true, and He hath shown mekindness, since He took me out of the prison and hath brought you from thedesert after Satan had made strife between me and my brethren. Lo! my Lordis tender unto whom He will. He is the Knower, the Wise.
12/101 O my Lord! Thou hast given me (something) of sovereignty andhast taught me (something) of the interpretation of events - Creator of theheavens and the earth! Thou art my Protecting Guardian in the world and theHereafter. Make me to die muslim  (unto Thee), and join me to therighteous.
12/102 This is of the tidings of the Unseen which We inspire in thee(Muhammad). Thou wast not present with them when they fixed their plan andthey were scheming.
12/103 And though thou try much, most men will not believe.
12/104 Thou askest them no fee for it. It is naught else than areminder unto the peoples.
12/105 How many a portent is there in the heavens and the earth whichthey pass by with face averted!
12/106 And most of them believe not in Allah except that theyattribute partners (unto Him).
12/107 Deem they themselves secure from the coming on them of a pallof Allah's punishment, or the coming of the Hour suddenly while they areunaware?
12/108 Say: This is my Way: I call on Allah with sure knowledge. Iand whosoever followeth me - Glory be to Allah! - and I am not of theidolaters.
12/109 We sent not before thee (any messengers) save men whom Weinspired from among the folk of the townships - Have they not travelled inthe land and seen the nature of the consequence for those who were beforethem? And verily the abode of the Hereafter, for those who ward off (evil),is best. Have ye then no sense? -
12/110 Till, when the messengers despaired and thought that they weredenied, then came unto them Our help, and whom We would was saved. And Ourwrath cannot be warded from the guilty.
12/111 In their history verily there is a lesson for men ofunderstanding. It is no invented story but a confirmation of the existing(Scripture) and a detailed explanation of everything, and a guidance and amercy for folk who believe.
