39/1 The revelation of the Scripture is from Allah, the Mighty, theWise.
39/2 Lo! We have revealed the Scripture unto thee (Muhammad) withtruth; so worship Allah, making religion pure for Him (only).
39/3 Surely pure religion is for Allah only. And those who chooseprotecting friends beside Him (say): We worship them only that they maybring us near unto Allah. Lo! Allah will judge between them concerning thatwherein they differ. Lo! Allah guideth not him who is a liar, an ingrate.
39/4 If Allah had willed to choose a son, He could have chosen whatHe would of that which He hath created. Be He Glorified! He is Allah, theOne, the Absolute.
39/5 He hath created the heavens and the earth with truth. Hemaketh night to succeed day, and He maketh day to succeed night, and Heconstraineth the sun and the moon to give service, each running on for anappointed term. Is not He the Mighty, the Forgiver?
39/6 He created you from one being, then from that (being) He madeits mate; and He hath provided for you of cattle eight kinds. He createdyou in the wombs of your mothers, creation after creation, in a threefoldgloom. Such is Allah, your Lord. His is the Sovereignty. There is no Allahsave Him. How then are ye turned away?
39/7 If ye are thankless, yet Allah is Independent of you, thoughHe is not pleased with thanklessness for His bondmen; and if ye arethankful He is pleased therewith for you. No laden soul will bear another'sload. Then unto your Lord is your return; and He will tell you what ye usedto do. Lo! He knoweth what is in the breasts (of men).
39/8 And when some hurt toucheth man, he crieth unto his Lord,turning unto Him (repentant). Then, when He granteth him a boon from Him heforgetteth that for which he cried unto Him before, and setteth up rivalsto Allah that he may beguile (men) from his way. Say (O Muhammad, unto suchan one): Take pleasure in thy disbelief a while. Lo! thou art of the ownersof the Fire.
39/9 Is he who payeth adoration in the watches of the night,prostrate and standing, bewaring of the Hereafter and hoping for the mercyof his Lord, (to be accounted equal with a disbeliever)? Say (unto them, OMuhammad): Are those who know equal with those who know not? But only menof understanding will pay heed.
39/10 Say: O My bondmen who believe! Observe your duty to your Lord.For those who do good in this world there is good, and Allah's earth isspacious. Verily the steadfast will be paid their wages without stint.
39/11 Say (O Muhammad): Lo! I am commanded to worship Allah, makingreligion pure for Him (only).
39/12 And I am commanded to be the first of those who are muslims(surrender unto Him).
39/13 Say: Lo! if I should disobey my Lord, I fear the doom of atremendous Day.
39/14 Say: Allah I worship, making my religion pure for Him (only).
39/15 Then worship what ye will beside Him. Say: The losers will bethose who lose themselves and their housefolk on the Day of Resurrection.Ah, that will be the manifest loss!
39/16 They have an awning of fire above them and beneath them a dais(of fire). With this doth Allah appal His bondmen. O My bondmen, thereforfear Me!
39/17 And those who put away false gods lest they should worshipthem and turn to Allah in repentance, for them there are glad tidings.Therefor give good tidings (O Muhammad) to My bondmen
39/18 Who hear advice and follow the best thereof. Such are thosewhom Allah guideth, and such are men of understanding.
39/19 Is he on whom the word of doom is fulfilled (to be helped),and canst thou (O Muhammad) rescue him who is in the Fire?
39/20 But those who keep their duty to their Lord, for them arelofty halls with lofty halls above them, built (for them), beneath whichrivers flow. (It is) a promise of Allah. Allah faileth not His promise.
39/21 Hast thou not seen how Allah hath sent down water from the skyand hath caused it to penetrate the earth as watersprings, and afterwardthereby produceth crops of divers hues; and afterward they wither and thouseest them turn yellow; then He maketh them chaff. Lo! herein verily is areminder for men of understanding.
39/22 Is he whose bosom Allah hath expanded for Al-Islam, so that hefolloweth a light from his Lord, (as he who disbelieveth)? Then woe untothose whose hearts are hardened against remembrance of Allah. Such are inplain error.
39/23 Allah hath (now) revealed the fairest of statements, aScripture consistent, (wherein promises of reward are) paired (with threatsof punishment), whereat doth creep the flesh of those who fear their Lord,so that their flesh and their hearts soften to Allah's reminder. Such isAllah's guidance, wherewith He guideth whom He will. And him whom Allahsendeth astray, for him there is no guide.
39/24 Is he then, who will strike his face against the awful doomupon the Day of Resurrection (as he who doeth right)? And it will be saidunto the wrong-doers: Taste what ye used to earn.
39/25 Those before them denied, and so the doom came on them whencethey knew not.
39/26 Thus Allah made them taste humiliation in the life of theworld, and verily the doom of the Hereafter will be greater if they did butknow.
39/27 And verily We have coined for mankind in this Qur'an all kindsof similitudes, that haply they may reflect;
39/28 A Lecture in Arabic, containing no crookedness, that haplythey may ward off (evil).
39/29 Allah coineth a similitude: A man in relation to whom areseveral part-owners, quarrelling, and a man belonging wholly to one man.Are the two equal in similitude? Praise be to Allah! But most of them knownot.
39/30 Lo! thou wilt die, and lo! they will die;
39/31 Then lo! on the Day of Resurrection, before your Lord ye willdispute.
39/32 And who doth greater wrong than he who telleth a lie againstAllah, and denieth the truth when it reacheth him? Will not the home ofdisbelievers be in hell?
39/33 And whoso bringeth the truth and believeth therein - Such arethe dutiful.
39/34 They shall have what they will of their Lord's bounty. That isthe reward of the good:
39/35 That Allah will remit from them the worst of what they did,and will pay them for reward the best they used to do.
39/36 Will not Allah defend His slave? Yet they would frighten theewith those beside Him. He whom Allah sendeth astray, for him there is noguide.
39/37 And he whom Allah guideth, for him there can be no misleader.Is not Allah Mighty, Able to Requite (the wrong)?
39/38 And verily, if thou shouldst ask them: Who created the heavensand the earth? they will say: Allah. Say: Bethink you then of those yeworship beside Allah, if Allah willed some hurt for me, could they removefrom me His hurt; or if He willed some mercy for me, could they restrainHis mercy? Say: Allah is my all. In Him do (all) the trusting put theirtrust.
39/39 Say: O my people! Act in your manner. Lo! I (too) am acting.Thus ye will come to know
39/40 Who it is unto whom cometh a doom that will abase him, and onwhom there falleth everlasting doom.
39/41 Lo! We have revealed unto thee (Muhammad) the Scripture formankind with truth. Then whosoever goeth right it is for his soul, andwhosoever strayeth, strayeth only to its hurt. And thou art not a warderover them.
39/42 Allah receiveth (men's) souls at the time of their death, andthat (soul) which dieth not (yet) in its sleep. He keepeth that (soul) forwhich He hath ordained death and dismisseth the rest till an appointedterm. Lo! herein verily are portents for people who take thought.
39/43 Or choose they intercessors other than Allah? Say: What! Eventhough they have power over nothing and have no intelligence?
39/44 Say: Unto Allah belongeth all intercession. His is theSovereignty of the heavens and the earth. And afterward unto Him ye will bebrought back.
39/45 And when Allah alone is mentioned, the hearts of those whobelieve not in the Hereafter are repelled, and when those (whom theyworship) beside Him are mentioned, behold! they are glad.
39/46 Say: O Allah! Creator of the heavens and the earth! Knower ofthe Invisible and the Visible! Thou wilt judge between Thy slavesconcerning that wherein they used to differ.
39/47 And though those who do wrong possess all that is in theearth, and therewith as much again, they verily will seek to ransomthemselves therewith on the Day of Resurrection from the awful doom; andthere will appear unto them, from their Lord, that wherewith they neverreckoned.
39/48 And the evils that they earned will appear unto them, and thatwhereat they used to scoff will surround them.
39/49 Now when hurt toucheth a man he crieth unto Us, and afterwardwhen We have granted him a boon from Us, he saith: Only by force ofknowledge I obtained it. Nay, but it is a test. But most of them know not.
39/50 Those before them said it, yet (all) that they had earnedavailed them not;
39/51 But the evils that they earned smote them; and such of theseas do wrong, the evils that they earn will smite them; they cannot escape.
39/52 Know they not that Allah enlargeth providence for whom Hewill, and straiteneth it (for whom He will). Lo! herein verily are portentsfor people who believe.
39/53 Say: O My slaves who have been prodigal to their own hurt!Despair not of the mercy of Allah, Who forgiveth all sins. Lo! He is theForgiving, the Merciful.
39/54 Turn unto your Lord repentant, and surrender unto Him, beforethere come unto you the doom, when ye cannot be helped.
39/55 And follow the better (guidance) of that which is revealedunto you from your Lord, before the doom cometh on you suddenly when yeknow not,
39/56 Lest any soul should say: Alas, my grief that I was unmindfulof Allah, and I was indeed among the scoffers!
39/57 Or should say: If Allah had but guided me I should have beenamong the dutiful!
39/58 Or should say, when it seeth the doom: Oh, that I had but asecond chance that I might be among the righteous!
39/59 (But now the answer will be): Nay, for My revelations cameunto thee, but thou didst deny them and wast scornful and wast among thedisbelievers.
39/60 And on the Day of Resurrection thou (Muhammad) seest those wholied concerning Allah with their faces blackened. Is not the home of thescorners in hell?
39/61 And Allah delivereth those who ward off (evil) because oftheir deserts. Evil toucheth them not, nor do they grieve.
39/62 Allah is Creator of all things, and He is Guardian over allthings.
39/63 His are the keys of the heavens and the earth, and they whodisbelieve the revelations of Allah - such are they who are the losers.
39/64 Say (O Muhammad, to the disbelievers): Do ye bid me serveother than Allah? O ye fools!
39/65 And verily it hath been revealed unto thee as unto thosebefore thee (saying): If thou ascribe a partner to Allah thy work will failand thou indeed wilt be among the losers.
39/66 Nay, but Allah must thou serve, and be among the thankful!
39/67 And they esteem not Allah as He hath the right to be esteemed,when the whole earth is His handful on the Day of Resurrection, and theheavens are rolled in His right hand. Glorified is He and High Exalted fromall that they ascribe as partner (unto Him).
39/68 And the trumpet is blown, and all who are in the heavens andall who are in the earth swoon away, save him whom Allah willeth. Then itis blown a second time, and behold them standing waiting!
39/69 And the earth shineth with the light of her Lord, and the Bookis set up, and the prophets and the witnesses are brought, and it is judgedbetween them with truth, and they are not wronged.
39/70 And each soul is paid in full for what it did. And He is BestAware of what they do.
39/71 And those who disbelieve are driven unto hell in troops till,when they reach it and the gates thereof are opened, and the wardersthereof say unto them: Came there not unto you messengers of your own,reciting unto you the revelations of your Lord and warning you of themeeting of this your Day? they say: Yea, verily. But the word of doom ofdisbelievers is fulfilled.
39/72 It is said (unto them): Enter ye the gates of hell to dwelltherein. Thus hapless is the journey's end of the scorners.
39/73 And those who keep their duty to their Lord are driven untothe Garden in troops till, when they reach it, and the gates thereof areopened, and the warders thereof say unto them: Peace be unto you! Ye aregood, so enter ye (the Garden of delight), to dwell therein;
39/74 They say: Praise be to Allah, Who hath fulfilled His promiseunto us and hath made us inherit the land, sojourning in the Garden wherewe will! So bounteous is the wage of workers.
39/75 And thou (O Muhammad) seest the angels thronging round theThrone, hymning the praises of their Lord. And they are judged aright. Andit is said: Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds!
